According to Ms. Taylor, she met Mr. Weinstein at a Hollywood night club at the age of 19.  As the night progressed she became increasingly intoxicated and found herself alone with the alleged serial harasser.  In a sworn statement given to officials Ms. Taylor states, “Why was I not sexually assaulted by Mr. Weinstein?  Was I not pretty enough?  Did I do something wrong?  I mean I may have been a bit overweight.  Was I not worthy of being assaulted?  These are all feelings I have struggled with since that fateful night.”

Bob Murphy, the attorney representing Ms. Taylor, had this to say, “I understand Joyce’s concerns, I mean she was in the right place at the right time, and feels she was entitled to be fondled, forced to perform fellatio, raped, something, anything.  In a way I think we have all been assaulted by Mr. Weinstein.”

The New York Times describes Mr. Weinstein as follows:

“(He) helped to reinvent the model for independent films, with movies such as “Sex, Lies, and Videotape,” “The English Patient,” “Pulp Fiction,” “The Crying Game,” “Shakespeare in Love,” and “The King’s Speech.” Beyond Hollywood, he has exercised his influence as a prolific fund-raiser for Democratic Party candidates, including Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton. Weinstein combined a keen eye for promising scripts, directors, and actors with a bullying, even threatening, style of doing business, inspiring both fear and gratitude. His movies have earned more than three hundred Oscar nominations, and, at the annual awards ceremonies, he has been thanked more than almost anyone else in movie history, just after Steven Spielberg and right before God.”

It is presumed there are more Joyce Taylor’s, possibly millions, out there waiting to tell their story of not being assaulted by Weinstein, however as of press time National Report was unable to find any additional non-victims.  This development only leads to more confusion surrounding the multitude of accusers suggesting that they had in fact been sexually assaulted by Mr. Weinstein.