Special Counsel Robert Mueller took over the ongoing FBI investigation into former MI6 agent Christopher Steele’s infamous Trump Russia dossier this week. Mueller wouldn’t waste his time if the dossier were crap, so this demonstrates that the dossier is indeed legitimate and verifiable, and has been all along. This means it’s time to face the question of why the mainstream media has been consistently and almost uniformly trying to discredit the dossier from the day it surfaced.

Consider the sequence of events. In October of 2016, Mother Jones reporter David Corn reported on major aspects of the dossier (link). While he’s a widely respected reporter, the rest of the mainstream media almost unanimously ignored his story. Then this past winter, the dossier itself surfaced. The biggest of news outlets had their hands on it. CNN reported some aspects of it, but refused to release the dossier. Then BuzzFeed finally posted the entire thing online, creating a sensation and forcing the biggest of news outlets to begin covering it.

From the minute that happened, every major media outlet worked to discount or discredit the dossier. They referred to it as “unverified” – which is true, but they haven’t bothered to use that word when presenting far less legitimate and less verified pieces of evidence in the Trump-Russia scandal. The dossier has been unique in receiving this kind of treatment. As aspects of the dossier were verified, numerous major media outlets (including those who generally love reporting Trump scandals) have flat out lied by claiming that aspects of the dossier were disproven, when none of it has ever been disproven. It raises the alarming question of why the media is so afraid of this dossier. There are a couple explanations, and neither of them is acceptable.

The first would be that, because the dossier included a salacious and unproven personal allegation about Trump’s private life (the one involving Russian prostitutes), the big media bosses may have all told their employees that the dossier was entirely off limits. Then as it became a story anyway, those outlets felt they had to cover it, so they tried to tiptoe around it as lightly as possible. This would be devastating if true, because it would mean the media failed us out of cowardice. There’s also a much darker, and unfortunately entirely plausible, explanation.

In my years in political journalism, I’ve repeatedly been reminded that major media outlets will work hard to kill a legitimate scoop from a smaller competing news outlet, simply because they don’t want to have to acknowledge that they got beat by someone smaller. For instance, Palmer Report has been the first to break various isolated aspects of the Trump-Russia scandal (Trump Taj Mahal money laundering, trail of dead Russians, etc). When our reporting has gone viral, to the point that the mainstream media felt it couldn’t simply ignore the story, numerous major news outlets have responded by viciously attacking our reporting. In most instances this has been after we’d proven the legitimacy of our story using independently verifiable sourcing. In some instances major news outlets have even tried to scandalize my personal life, in the hope of discrediting some of my most important Trump-Russia stories.

That’s not meant as a complaint. I knew political journalism was a cesspool when I chose to go into it. But it’s important for you to understand that the field of political journalism is full of vicious sociopaths who don’t give a damn about getting the story right – and are only really interested in either being first, or attacking whoever is first. You’ve got to come to grips with this ugly reality in order to understand why the mainstream media would be willing to spend all year crapping on the Trump-Russia dossier. They collectively chose not to initially run with the dossier, which proved to be a crucial story, and now they’re still trying to cover their tracks. Unfortunately, political journalism really does often work this way.



 Thanks for reading Palmer Report. Check out this great content: