Donald Trump’s ouster is no longer a question of if, but when – and even that might now be sooner than you’d think. Everything changed yesterday when the head of the Trump campaign’s voter data analysis was caught admitting to having tried to conspire with Russian-controlled hackers with regard to Hillary Clinton’s emails. That’s a smoking pistol that’ll soon lead to a smoking bazooka. The Trump administration is now dead; it’s just a matter of how long before the carcass collapses. So what now?

In the past days we’ve seen most of the Republican Congress frantically scrambling to find a way to protect Donald Trump from his Russia scandal a bit longer. They’re desperate to pass their tax cut package for the wealthy, so they can declare one singular victory for their billionaire backers before settling for the reality that nothing else is getting done for the rest of this term. Trump’s worsening instability, his toxic unpopularity, and now his exploding scandals have ensured that.

From their scrambling, it’s clear that the Republicans knew this Trump-Russia voter data bombshell was coming. It’s equally clear that they know a lot more is going to surface on that front, and soon. This is about to explode in catastrophic fashion within a matter of days, and they know it. Things are now so imminently tenuous that the GOP no longer even feels safe that Trump will still be tenable by the time they get around to voting on their tax plan a week or two from now.

It’s why you’re seeing the Republican Congress suddenly going along with the phoniest of phony uranium scandals about Hillary Clinton. The GOP is desperately throwing everything at the wall it can think of, if only to create a temporary distraction from Donald Trump’s own exploding Russia scandal, so it can finish its tax giveaway to the wealthy. Once the other shoes drop on the Trump-Russia voter data scandal, no one will care or remember the sideshows the GOP is trying to gin up this week. But that doesn’t matter, because this is all about buying time.