The White House is giving new life to the push to repeal and replace ObamaCare with a move to win over the conservative House holdouts who sank the American Health Care Act late last month. A new vote might come as early as this week.

For investors hopeful that President Trump will provide the promised fiscal fuel that sparked the postelection rally in the Dow Jones industrial average, S&P 500 index and Nasdaq composite, the U-turn back into the treacherous politics of ObamaCare repeal isn't encouraging news.

The Dow was barely positive in afternoon trading, while the S&P 500 and Nasdaq were modestly lower. The broad market uptrend remains under pressure as bank stocks, among the big winners in the Trump rally based on prospects for tax cuts, faster growth and higher interest rates, have fallen below their 50-day moving averages. Most banks were lower on the stock market today, including Wells Fargo (WFC) and Bank of America (BAC).

Hospital stocks and Medicaid-focused insurers, which had bounced back from a TrumpCare-inspired sell-off when it looked like the legislation that would add 24 million to the ranks of the uninsured was doomed, were under pressure again on Tuesday.

Hospital group Tenet Healthcare (THC) lost 2.5%, while HCA Holding (HCA) fell 1.9%. Insurer Molina Healthcare (MOH) fell 2.7% and Centene (CNC) 2.65%. Still, the stocks are well above their levels of two weeks ago, a sign that investors may think the revival of ObamaCare repeal is like a reality-show version of "The Walking Dead."

Instead of quickly moving to tax cuts, as Trump had signaled he would do, he's diving back into what looks like a legislative morass. At best, a renewed effort to repeal ObamaCare likely just means a longer detour for Trump's fiscal plans. But there's already evidence that the ObamaCare battle is sapping consumer confidence. The IBD/TIPP Economic Optimism Index out Tuesday fell to 51.7 in April from 55.3 in March, reversing almost all of its postelection rise. At worst, a drawn-out political battle could cut into business optimism and undercut the economy's momentum.

IBD'S TAKE: When the stock market's uptrend is under pressure, as it is currently, investors should be more cautious about buying stocks and quick to cut losses. Read The Big Picture each day to see whether the uptrend remains intact and check out Leaderboard to find buying opportunities and sell signals for the market's leading stocks.

Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao said on Tuesday that the White House may have infrastructure legislation ready by the end of May, though infrastructure and tax reform were expected to be in the same package. For now, the Trump administration is still searching for a tax reform Plan B. Amid stiff opposition to House Speaker Paul Ryan's plan to raise $1 trillion to pay for tax cuts via a 20% border-adjusted tax on imports, the White House is reportedly looking at a value-added tax or carbon tax though the administration denied they are under consideration.

Getting an ObamaCare repeal bill out of the House — if it happens — would be a walk in the park compared to the challenge that awaits in the Senate, where the GOP can stand to lose just two votes, but a half-dozen lawmakers have signaled opposition to rolling back ObamaCare's Medicaid expansion.

The White House has reportedly agreed to give ground on a key demand of the conservative House Freedom Caucus, granting states the opportunity to opt out of ObamaCare's community-rating regulation that requires insurers to charge the same price to the sick and the healthy. The Trump administration would grant waivers to states, if they can show that nixing the regulation would reduce premiums and result in more people being covered.

The revived push to repeal ObamaCare adds to the uncertainty facing individual-market insurers who need to set premiums for 2018 ObamaCare exchange coverage within the next two months. Anthem (ANTM), which reportedly intends to exit many of its exchange markets, is the only ObamaCare insurer in 200 counties, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation.

Many ObamaCare exchange markets weren't thriving before Trump took office, and this year's spike in premiums may have prompted many unsubsidized customers to drop their coverage, according to one report. The extra stress from the Trump administration's efforts to undercut the law and give people a pass from complying with the individual mandate appears likely to set off a crisis this summer, as some parts of the country find themselves without any insurance options for the coming year.

In other words, Trump is playing with fire in a drought zone. If a blaze breaks out, tax cuts may be starved of oxygen.

Trump Is Right: The ObamaCare Exchanges Are Racing Toward A Crisis