Words, words, words, are what people see every day, but I do not see words like most people. What I see are worlds, worlds, worlds, and spells, spells, spells. Today, we live in a world dominated by words, which are magic spells that can be used to hypnotize the minds of people. All words have magic properties because they were created based on occult knowledge. To be more specific, they were designed based on sacred geometry and sacred sound. Furthermore, many of them were charged with magic intention.

What the education system does not tell you about letters is that they are actually sigils containing the fundamental semantic code for transmission of thought. This is why words, which are made up of letters, are so effective for stimulating the human mind and transmitting information. Certain advertising companies are well aware that words are very effective tools for stimulating the mind, which is why their ad campaigns often have a lot of words in them.

Besides having the power to stimulate the mind, words also have the power to “cut” and shape the material world. Words have this power because they are sharp like swords. When you move the letter “s” in the term words to the front, it becomes the term sword. In some ways, words are more powerful than swords. This is why the Bible verse Hebrews 4:12 says,

Besides shaping the material world, words have the power to create the world of matter. To find evidence that words have the power to create the material world, we need to investigate one of the verses in the Gospel (“God-spell“) of John. In the New Testament of the Bible verse John 1:1 it says, “In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God”. When you read this verse literally, it sounds kind of confusing and does not make much sense. However, when you learn how to decipher it and access the knowledge hidden within its words, it makes a lot of sense.

What you need to know about the New Testament of most bibles is that it was translated from Greek. Because of this, if you want to “innerstand” what the Bible means when it says “In the beginning was the Word,” you need to investigate what the English term word means in Greek. In Greek, the English term word means logos. In English, the word logo means “the source that controls the universe, the written word or inspiration of God, or a logic and rational argument.” According to ancient Greek philosophy, the word logos means “the controlling principle in the universe”.

Based on the definitions in the previous paragraph, the Bible verse “In the beginning was the Word” actually means “In the beginning was the Source.” The Source for what? The Source for the codesthat govern reality, also known as the Laws of Nature. The Bible verse John 1:1 is not really talking about the words in books, but is talking about the forces, laws and knowledge of the Universe, which can be expressed through words to create worlds.

When we speak words, we are literally creating worlds. However, because our conscious and subconscious minds are not working in harmony with each other, our thoughts expressed through words often do not physically affect the material world in a way that we can see. In other words, most of the changes occur at the subconscious level. Did you notice that the term world has the term word in it? Take out the letter “l” from the term world and you are left with the term word.

The world you live in is ruled by words. This is why all physical contracts are based on words and all disputes are done using words. Because the world is ruled by words, if you want to prevent words from ruling over you, you need to be aware of the occult (hidden) meaning of words. The words you need to know their hidden meaning are the words commonly used in the legal system. Three of the many words that you need to pay close attention to are the words name, person and corporation.

In the world of legalese, the words name, person and corporation are not what most people think they are. Below are the legal definitions of the words name, person and corporation from Black’s Law Dictionary (6th edition).



 In the legal definition of person, there is a phrase that says “though by statute term“. The phrase “statute term” means “legal term”. Because of this, a person is legally a corporation. As a person/corporation, the legal system sees you as an artificial person or legal entity. An artificial person is not living; instead it is DEAD. As a result of that, it has no natural rights.

To connect the dots, when you agree to be a “person”, you actually agree to be an artificial person and thereby have no natural rights. Without natural rights, the government can force you to pay taxes and order you to obey its fictitious laws. Do you innerstand now why you need to be wary of words?

Before you were born or shortly thereafter, your mother and father gave you a name. They gave you a name because you are going to be a good little ewe and follow orders. Did you notice that the word you is pronounced similar to the word ewe? The word ewe means “a female sheep, especially when fully mature.” When you do not question things and follow orders, you/ewe are considered a sheep by your owners, which are the Elite. This is why the word sheeple is used to define people who are “docile, foolish, or easily led.”

The name is the most popular magic spell for marking you/ewe as a slave. It is the most effective magic spell for tricking you to agree to be a “person”, which is legally defined as a “corporation” or “artificial person”. Do you remember what I said early that the word name means “The designation of an individual person, or of a firm or corporation“? Because the Name Spell is so effective for deceiving you, it is heavily used by religious institutions, governments, banks and corporations to hypnotize your mind with sigils (letters).

To condition your mind to accept your name as being the same as you (the living man or woman made of flesh and blood), they use the education system to indoctrinate you at a very early age to think that the name is who you really are. After years of being indoctrinated, you mostly unconsciously accept that you (the living man or woman) and your name are one and the same. Once you accept this, you are completely under the magic effect of the Name Spell, causing you to actually think that you and your name are one and the same.

Your name is not who you are. Your NAME is NOT who YOU are. YOUR NAME IS NOT WHO YOU ARE. Why? Because you are the spirit with NO NAME living in a body made of flesh and blood. Does that sound like a name to you? Now, sit back and think about that for a minute. Can you feel the Name Spell losing its magic effect on you? Once you become aware of the Name Spell, it can not affect you as much, causing you to wake up and remember who you truly are.

Because you are now aware that your name is not who you truly are, your awareness should start to expand. As your awareness expands, you will become more aware of other magic spells. To learn more about magic spells and the power of words, visit my website EsotericKnowledge.me.

Pao Chang is the author of EsotericKnowledge.me and OmniThought.org. For more content related to the article you just read, visit his websites and read his book titled Word Magic: The Powers & Occult Definitions of Words.

This article (The Spells and Appearances of Words Can Control Your Thoughts) was originally created and published by Energy Fanatics and is re-posted here with permission.

The Spells and Appearances of Words Can Control Your Thoughts was last modified: by