New House Oversight Chairman Trey Gowdy (R-SC) is mad as hell about Washington, D.C., insiders suddenly obsessing over Russian interference.

During former Ohio Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Cheif Jeh Johnson’s testimony, his comments about what Russia was up to raised red flags for Gowdy. Since Russia was trying to cause problems in 2016, why did no one care… until now?

Gowdy’s comments were fiery and he makes a good point:

Johnson testified about Russia in front of the House Intelligence Committee Wednesday, and Gowdy didn’t let him off the hook for failing to prevent massive election interference. “[Russia is] a career offender when it comes to attacking the foundations of our Republic,” Gowdy asserted. “They have a history of cyber attacks on our country. You warned before the elections that they may attack our voting infrastructure. After the election President Obama took steps to target Russia.” “Given what we knew before the election, what more could we have done and should we have done? We weren’t surprised Russia was doing this to us–they always do it to us!” he declared. Johnson was unable to provide any specific steps he could have taken, instead replying, “Hindsight is brilliant. Hindsight is 20/20.”

As you can see, Johnson never really answered Gowdy’s questions. That’s because he can’t.

Gowdy dropped a bombshell point: “If they had turned the server over to either you or Director Comey, maybe we would have known more and maybe there would have been more for you to report? So, I guess what I’m asking you is, why would the victim of a crime no turn over a server to the intelligence community or to law enforcement?”

There are always problems with foreign countries trying to interfere with another nation’s security and elections. The reason why Russia suddenly matters now is that it has become a narrative to hurt the Trump White House politically by raising questions about the legitimacy of the election.

This is more proof that the entire Russia investigation is a fake “witch hunt.”

What do you think about Trey Gowdy’s powerful questions for Obama’s DHS Chief? Please leave us a comment (below) and tell us.