Elizabeth Warren is one of the most liberal members of Congress and she makes sure to let the American people know with her constant socialist ramblings. Warren routinely uses her platform as a United States Senator to rail against American businesses and taxpayers while demanding greater regulation and government intrusion into our lives.

Since President Donald J. Trump took office in January, Senator Warren has been leading the so-called “resistance” against his administration, obstructing every effort this White House has made to “Make America Great Again.”

During a commencement speech at the University of Amherst, Warren used the opportunity to rail against President Trump and Attorney General Jeff Sessions, but things went wrong when she unintentionally railed against… herself.

During her speech, Warren proclaimed “We need a Justice Department, not an obstruction of justice department,” which was met with laughter from the liberal audience in attendance. This is the same Senator who has done nothing but obstruct since President Trump took office.

Warren asked the graduates to become activists for causes and named a few, including animal rescue, pre-natal care and “bullying.” Then she attacked her political opponents, saying, “I can’t help myself.” “And I have one more: the principle that no one in this country is above the law — and we need a justice department not an obstruction of justice department,” Warren said. Warren also told the graduates that big corporations and the wealthy are trying to “fundamentally change” the country and it is up to them to stop it. “Your elected officials are increasingly working only for the few — the very wealthy few,” Warren said. “And they are setting policies only to benefit the few — the very wealthy few. And if that doesn’t change then this country will fundamentally change. “It is your world, your future that is on the line,” Warren said.

Check out video of Warren’s comments below:

To Warren, the Justice Department should only work to advance her liberal values and since Jeff Sessions wants justice for all Americans, the far-left senator predictably cried foul.

And speaking of “bullying,” Elizabeth Warren faked American Indian ancestry to bully employers into giving her a job. She supports Obamacare, which was shoved down the throats of the American people in the middle of the night through dubious procedures. She doesn’t oppose bullying. She just likes it when she gets to tell everyone else what to do, like a typical liberal.

The far-left senator needs to come up with some new material, as her tired attacks on President Trump are even falling flat with the most liberal of audiences.

Would you have booed or laughed at Ms. Warren’s comments? Share your thoughts below!