Socialist Senator and former Democratic presidential candidate Bernie Sanders (I-VT) is in hot water after missing the deadline to file his ethics financial statements… for a second time!

The first deadline was May 15th for the 2016 records. But Sanders, a big-government socialist who campaigned on more transparency in government, missed the filing deadline.

What’s going on here? Does it have to do with his wife’s FBI investigation, or perhaps alleged favors received from Team Clinton in exchange for cooperation during the 2016 presidential campaign?

Sanders was supposed to file two separate disclosures because he was running for President, but he failed to do that as well until after losing to Hillary Clinton in the Democrat primary.

He’s been caught hiding his financial records:

[…]Sanders has failed to meet a May 15 deadline for turning in an annual report detailing his finances for 2016, according to the Valley News, a New England newspaper. The U.S. Senate Select Committee on Ethics requires all 100 U.S. senators to file detailed financial disclosures generally cataloging what they own and what they owe each year. Senators must also itemize all the gifts and free trips they have received from private sources. Sanders, who emphasized government transparency during his 2016 presidential campaign, also completely blew off Senate Ethics Committee financial documentation filing deadlines in 2012, 2014 and 2015.

And his holdings in real estate certainly don’t sound “socialist.” Do they?

All the mutual funds are in the name of Jane Sanders, according to the Vermont Journalism Trust. In 2016, Sanders and his wife purchased a $600,000 lakefront home — a spacious, four-bedroom home with 500 feet of beachfront on Lake Champlain. Along with their family home in Burlington, Vermont and a row house on Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C., Bernie and Jane Sanders now own three tasteful real estate properties.

Sanders, who owns three homes, is clearly in the 1%. But why is he taking so long to disclose his financial dealings?

What do you think about Senator Sanders failing to file financial ethics forms? Please leave us a comment (below) and tell us.