Anthony Weiner was a prominent Democrat Congressman and Clinton insider from New York whose tirades from the House floor made for great television, but his career came tumbling down amidst numerous “sexting scandals” that forced him from office.

After leaving office, Weiner sought to become the mayor of New York, but failed to win the Democrat primary. Since then, Weiner has been making headlines for another “sexting” scandal that engulfed the Hillary Clinton campaign.

For months, Weiner was engaged in an inappropriate relationship with a 15-year old girl, and the computer he used to communicate with the girl was seized by the FBI when it was discovered that classified emails that were sent between Hillary Clinton and Huma Abedin were also on the computer.

Not only did Weiner’s actions play a major role in Hillary’s 2016 campaign, but they appear to have major legal consequences, and the former congressman is set to pay the price.

From The New York Times:

Mr. Weiner will plead guilty to a single charge of transferring obscene material to a minor, pursuant to a plea agreement with the United States attorney’s office in Manhattan, one of the people said. Mr. Weiner surrendered to the F.B.I. early Friday morning. The federal authorities have been investigating reports that, beginning in January 2016, Mr. Weiner, then 51, exchanged sexually explicit messages with a 15-year-old girl in North Carolina. The plea covers conduct by Mr. Weiner from January through March of last year, the person said. A likely result of the plea is that Mr. Weiner would end up as a registered sex offender, although a final determination has yet to be made, the person added. The charge carries a potential sentence of between zero and 10 years in prison, meaning Mr. Weiner could avoid prison. The ultimate sentence would be determined by a judge.

Anthony Weiner has a long and disgusting history of sending inappropriate messages and pictures to women who aren’t his wife. This time, his communications with a minor show that his problem is much worse than simple adultery.

The Democrat seems unwilling, or unable, to make changes in his life and get the help he needs. It would be unjust if Weiner, given his public profile, would be able to avoid jail time given the seriousness of his crimes.

What’s shocking is that, with how close his wife, Huma Abedin, is to Hillary Clinton, that he will face any consequences at all. Hillary Clinton introduced the couple, and Bill Clinton officiated their wedding, which shows just how bad the judgment of Bill and Hillary truly is.

Do you think Anthony Weiner should get jail time for his actions? Share your thoughts below!