Every time I think we've hit Peak Left, the left goes one better. Or to paraphrase Michelle Obama, when they go low, we do a series celebrating an ideology of mass murder.

While at the New York Times, that's been Communism. The old red lady has a series trying to reconcile Communism with modern lefty trends like environmentalism and feminism. And Islam.

"What Killed the Promise of Muslim Communism?" asks the Times.

Same thing that killed the promise of kale and New Coke in a blender. Or the Hitler-Stalin pact.

Communism is an atheistic utopian movement that believes in killing and subjugating everyone. Islam is like that. Except without the atheism. You can see a certain conflict here. And by "you", I mean anyone who isn't a leftist. Because leftists can't see obvious conflicts like this. Just beautiful genocidal dreams that might have been.

Almost as promising as the Hitler-Stalin pact.

And rallying to Islamists and against Jews. And rallying to Nazis. But such pesky details get in the way of the left's beautiful dreams.

It's sad when death cults fall out.

He certainly excelled at wealth redistribution.

Translation, it allowed Muslims to engage in the racist persecution of non-Muslims, especially the Chinese.

Islamic parties were uncomfortable with the Communists’ insistence that independence from Dutch colonial rule also upend aristocratic privileges and bring about the establishment of Socialist forms of ownership over land and industry. This conflict extended into the early post-independence period. Islamic organizations actively participated in the anti-Communist pogroms of 1965-66, which destroyed the P.K.I. and left hundreds of thousands of casualties across Indonesia.

This is how the leftist--Islamist alliances always end. With Islamists butchering their leftist useful idiots. There's a lesson here for the New York Times. But you can bet it'll be too pushing propaganda for Linda Sarsour's next appearance to ponder it.

Somehow colonialism was force than Communism and Islam which had individually killed millions.

Oh what might have been...