I have an extensive writeup today on the McMaster purges of Islam realists, Iran critics and Trump supporters at the NSC.

One of McMaster’s first acts at the NSC was to ban any mention of “Obama holdovers.” Not only did the McMaster coup purge Harvey, who had assembled the holdover list, but his biggest target was Ezra Watnick-Cohen, who had exposed the eavesdropping on Trump officials by Obama personnel Like Harvey and Watnick-Cohen, Higgins had also become too dangerous to the Obama holdovers. Harvey had assembled a list of names and a plan to dismantle the Iranian nuclear deal. Watnick-Cohen had dug into the Obama surveillance of Trump officials. And Higgins had sought to declassify Presidential Study Directive 11. PSD-11 was the secret blueprint of Obama’s support for the Muslim Brotherhood. When Adam Lovinger urged that “more attention be given to the threat of Iran and Islamic extremism,” his security clearance was revoked.  Robin Townley was forced out in the same way. Meanwhile, McMaster sent a letter to Susan Rice, Obama’s former National Security Adviser, assuring her that the NSC would work with her to “allow you access to classified information.” He claimed that Rice's continued access to classified information is "consistent with the national security interests of the United States."

According to the Lake piece, McMaster believes that Susan Rice's unmasking of Trump people was justified.

That's in line with the anonymous sources in the Carter Circa piece which exposed the McMaster/Rice letter. And with Susan Rice's own message to McMaster.

Former Obama national security adviser Susan E. Rice on Monday urged her new counterpart in the Trump White House, Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster, to get rid of a national security wing led by presidential strategist Stephen Bannon. “Hope you will be able to choose your team, have direct reporting and daily access to POTUS, and can eliminate Strategic Initiatives Group,” Ms. Rice wrote in a congratulatory note to Lt. Gen. McMaster on Twitter.

You can often judge motives based on a pattern of actions. You attack your friends and help your enemies. Who your enemies are and who your allies are... are shown by how you treat them.

What's very clear here is that McMaster is an ally of Susan Rice. And of the Obama holdovers. And an opponent of Trump supporters and anyone attempting to expose the Obama sabotage.

The question is whether President Trump will let McMaster protect those Obama holdovers trying to impeach him while purging those who would protect him.

That is his choice.