As we’ve reported in the past regarding Megyn Kelly’s low ratings over at NBC, it’s becoming clear that the network, instead of acquiring new talent, only took a liability off of Fox News’ hands when they hired the anchor away.

Kelly started her career change with the show Sunday Night with Megyn Kelly, which set all kinds of records for viewership, such as being beaten in viewership by Dateline and America’s Funniest Home Video reruns. After only a few months on the air, Kelly’s Sunday show was canceled. While NBC invested heavily in the former Fox News star, it wasn’t hard to predict her inevitable failure. After all, her mainly liberal audience at NBC viewed her as a conservative because she previously anchored at Fox News – while she alienated a good deal of her Fox News audience with her feud with Donald Trump.

So it only makes sense her Fox audience didn’t follow her over to NBC.

But perhaps the second time is a charm? Her Sunday night show failed, so NBC decided to double down, deciding that if nobody wanted to see her once a week, perhaps they’d like to see her every weekday. Her new show, Megyn Kelly Today, debuted this morning. It took the form of a talk show with a studio audience (much like the format of Ellen, Dr. Oz, etc.).

While her career in television will continue for now, Kelly’s career as a political commentator may have ended. According to Fox News, Kelly is deliberately going to leave politics alone, and not address President Trump. She is looking to rehabilitate her image from a conservative star to a more non-partisan player in the TV world.

During her opening monologue of the first episode today, she told the audience that “the truth is I’m done with politics for now…. you know why.”

Well, thank goodness for that! And judging by the initial reactions to her new show, it’s unlikely to have more success than her first.

A reviewer for The Washington Post described the debut episode as awkward and a platform clearly unfamiliar to Kelly. “She interviewed people nervously and so awkwardly that they were cowed into giving monosyllabic answers. She also never missed an opportunity to talk about herself,” the reviewer wrote. Another reviewer for CNN said, “it’s worth considering that NBC News brass leapt at the opportunity to snag a high-profile news star without having fully thought through how best to deploy her.” One USA Today critic thought it was odd that Kelly was trying to separate herself from politics while still covering political issues. How does that even work?

And, of course, Twitter had a lot to say about the show:

NBC’s audience isn’t a fan – and that’s really all that counts.

If she’s out at NBC, does she have anywhere to go next?

What do you think? Has Megyn Kelly reached the end of her career? Tell us your thoughts below and share this story on Facebook and Twitter!