What does a $1 million donation buy from the Donald Trump administration? Dow Chemicals’ developed a pesticide derived from a nerve gas developed by Nazi Germany, and no request seems to be too big for the new president.

The chemical company gave Trump’s inauguration committee one of its largest corporate donations to help pay for the president’s celebration party. That is on top of the $13.6 million Dow spent on lobbying in just 2016, according to the AP. Then, of course, the CEO of Dow, Andrew Liveris stands as one the new president’s top advisors, Vanity Fair Reported.

If the nerve gas slant was not bad enough, scientists who work for the federal government found that chlorpyrifos, diazinon, and malathion are very dangerous to nearly 1,800 “critically threatened or endangered species,” the AP reported.

Dow sells about five million pounds of a group of pesticides chlorpyrifos, diazinon, and malathion, which are huge sources of income for the company that ranks number 56 on the Fortune 100 list of top companies.

Normally, the EPA [Environment Protection Agency] has traditionally worked with the Endangered Species Act to avoid harm coming to the frogs, birds, mammals, and plants, until now. According to the AP, the agency is:

There is a new Administrator of the EPA in town now. Scott Pruitt. The former attorney general of Oklahoma was well-known for being in bed with the energy industry. He wanted to pull out of the Paris Accord, which is an agreement signed onto by almost 200 countries to fight climate change. Why? He does not believe humans cause climate change!

Dow and other manufacturers wrote to the Department of Commerce, the EPA, and the Fish and Wildlife Service requesting they “set aside” the studies results, saying they are “fundamentally flawed.”

Director of Public Affairs at Dow Rachelle Schikorra spoke to the AP, commenting that any suggestion of paying for favors is “completely off the mark.” Scientists hired by Dow will “produce a lengthy rebuttal to the government studies.”

Check out this video by the National Resources Defense Council’s [NRDOC] about the EPA and the pesticide chlorpyrifos: