Summer is finally here, and Americans including the Trumps are taking time to enjoy the sunny season.

The president and his family recently attended their first summer picnic at the White House, but it was two of their young guests who stole the show and received special attention from observers at the event and on the internet.

The Daily Mail reported that President Trump stepped up to the microphone to say several kind words about Rep. Steve Scalise, the congressman who was seriously injured by a leftist gunman. Trump also gave special recognition to Scalise’s two kids, who attended the picnic.

“We are so touched that joining us here this evening are Steve and Jennifer’s children,” Trump said to the crowd.

Scalise’s two children had several other kids to play with at the relaxed event. Extended members of the Trump household, including Ivanka’s young children, were also seen having a great time at the picnic. The president made sure that the young guests were made welcome at the famous residence.

“In fact, we just gave them a beautiful tour of the White House. They got the A-tour. We gave them the A-tour,” Trump continued. “And I want them to know the whole country is praying for their courageous dad.”

Rep. Scalise is still fighting for his life after a far-left supporter of Bernie Sanders opened fire at a baseball practice session attended by Republican congressmen.

The actual congressional baseball game, which was played by Republicans and Democrats for charity, received nationwide attention. Trump spoke about that game during his remarks at the White House picnic.

“I wanted to be there so badly you have no idea… but our folks from the Secret Service said maybe we should take a pass,” he explained.

“It’s our hope that the unity showed that evening can continue to grow and thrive between Republicans and Democrats,” Trump remarked. “I think we’d be doing a lot better and I know the country would be doing a lot better.”

“We will prove worthy of the trust the country has placed in us,” the president continued. “I am hopeful the spirit of cooperation we have seen in recent days.”

Only time will tell if that spirit stays strong, but events such as the White House picnic are important reminders of what truly matters in America: Family, friends, and taking the time to appreciate one another on a beautiful summer day.

Please share this article on Facebook and Twitter if you support Rep. Scalise and his family.