U.S. Cyber Command have received some incredible news from the president.

Officials said the Trump administration is moving forward with plans to create an independent military Cyber Command with hopes of increasing the nation’s ability to wage cyberwar against its foes.

The Associated Press reported that the plans are in the final stages of being developed and details are still being worked out. An announcement about the changes are expected within a few weeks.

The Cyber Command, which was created in 2009, is currently part of the National Security Agency.

As reported by The AP, the purpose of the change is to free the organization from “any constraints that stem from working alongside the NSA,” according to officials.

The NSA is responsible for monitoring and collecting telephone, internet and other intelligence data, and that sometimes clashes with military operations against enemy forces.

“NSA is truly an intelligence-collection organization,” research associate with the Center for a New American Security Lauren Fish said. “It should be collecting information, writing reports on it. Cyber Command is meant to be an organization that uses tools to have military operational effect.”

“Making cyber an independent military command will put the fight in digital space on the same footing as more traditional realms of battle on land, in the air, at sea and in space,” The AP reported.

According to The AP, some officials believe the new command is not battle-ready, given its current reliance on the NSA for staff and equipment. The new effort also could likely involve hundreds of new employees.

The proposed budget for the organization in the next year is $647 million.

It’s obvious President Trump takes America’s cyber security seriously and with good reason. Let’s hope this independent force for cyberwar will stand the test in this modern age of technological warfare.

Share this story on Facebook and Twitter and let us know what you think about Cyber Command becoming an autonomous entity.