Lisa Durden had a fiery debate with Tucker Carlson defending a gathering of Black Lives Matter devotees that banned white people, but then found that she was suspended from her teaching position at Essex County College in Newark, New Jersey. Durden blames the controversial appearance for her suspension despite she had been on other Fox News shows previous to that one.

In the combative segment TheBlaze reported previously, Durden mocked white people saying, “What I say to that is boo-hoo-hoo, you white people are angry because you couldn’t use your ‘white privilege’ card to get invited to the Black Lives Matter’s all-black Memorial Day celebration! Wow!”

At one point, Carlson cut the microphone to the black activist, who constantly mocked and interrupted him.

When Durden tried to return to Essex County College to teach mass communication and popular culture and two speech courses, she was told to report to Human Resources after canceling her classes.

Durden received a letter from Jeffrey Lee, vice president for academic affairs, saying that she was suspended indefinitely. Although it didn’t specifically mention the appearance on the Tucker Carlson show as a reason for the dismissal, Durden says administration officials cited it when speaking to her.

According to Durden, Human Resources officials told her that someone complained that she had associated herself with the college while on the show. She says she never did that on the show, which TheBlaze posted here.

Durden has now lawyered up to challenge the suspension.

“There’s got to be some other agenda,” her attorney Leslie Farber, told NJ.com. “It seems to me they’re going to make up some reason. We’ve got to figure out what that is and why. Is she too outspoken?”

“They did this to humiliate me,” Durden said about the manner in which they suspended her. “Essex County College publicly lynched me in front of my students.”

Durden also had other appearances on Fox News previous to the Tucker Carlson debate, including “Fox and Friends” and “The Kelly Files with Megyn Kelly.”