Essex County College professor Lisa Durden’s explosive debate with Fox News’ Tucker Carlson resulted in her eventual firing from the higher learning institution, but she wasn’t going out without a bang.

In the segment — which aired in early June — with Carlson, Durden mocked white people over Black Lives Matter’s “blacks-only” Memorial Day party.

“What I say to that is boo-hoo-hoo, you white people are angry because you couldn’t use your ‘white privilege’ card to get invited to the Black Lives Matter’s all-black Memorial Day celebration! Wow!” she spat.

During their exchange, Carlson eventually cut the activist’s microphone, who insisted on interrupting him, disrespecting him, and mocking his comments.

Durden was initially suspended by the community college after the Carlson fracas, which she claims was done with no reason.

“They did this to humiliate me,” Durden said about the suspension. “Essex County College publicly lynched me in front of my students.”

After her suspension, Durden was fired on Friday.

In a statement from Essex County College President Anthony E. Munroe, Munroe revealed that a “fair and thorough review” of Durden’s comments was assessed, and the end result was that the college came to the decision that they could no longer “maintain an employment relationship with the adjunct.”

About Durden’s remarks directly, Munroe said, “Racism cannot be fought with more racism.”

During a Monday appearance with Roland Martin on News One, however, Durden was asked by the host if she felt remorse over the remarks that eventually saw her firing and wondered if she would consider apologizing.

“No,” she said, “I am not going to.”

She then went off on a rant about racism, and compared her rant to something Judge Jeanine Pirro would say on television.

“I wasn’t there to play games, I was there to take a bite out of crime,” Durden said. “When a black woman is on television who is direct, who is aggressive, we’re ‘angry.’ Well, when Jeanine Pirro is on TV pointing and screaming and yelling, she’s ‘intelligent.’”

She added, “Why can’t I come on there and be aggressive and talk in the same vein as any expert in the fields of pop culture, politics and social issues? So now when I do it, I’m not intelligent. When [white women] do it, they’re amazing, they’re intelligent, they’re fantastic!”

See Durden’s full explosive rant in the video below.