Parents at two schools in Massachusetts and California were up in arms this week over President Trump-themed Halloween decorations.

People started calling for a teacher at Santa Clarita Elementary School in California to be fired when a photo emerged showing her class's scarecrow, modeled off the president.

Each year around the holiday, each class at the school competes to make the best scarecrow.

Someone posted a picture of the scarecrow online and community members started complaining.

'We need to have respect for our president and to allow young children to depict the president in that manner is disrespectful,' one anonymous woman told CBS LA.

While a few of the commenters thought that the teacher should be fired, others supported her.

One father said that it was the kids' idea to make the scarecrow in Trump's image, while the president of the school's Parent-Teacher Club said 'I do not believe it was the student's intention to be political'.

School officials were unaware of the controversy until Saturday, but they said they are now investigating the matter.

Meanwhile, a similar fuss was made at a fundraiser for West Parish Elementary in Gloucester, Massachusetts on Friday.

One set of parents brought a Halloween-themed bean-bag toss game to the event, which included several humorous tombstones. One of the tombstones read 'Don Trump'.

Massachusetts Republican Party committeewoman Amanda Orlando Kesterson was sent a picture of the game and posted it on Facebook, writing: 'I find it absolutely despicable that the PTO of one of our local elementary schools would bring this political agenda before our children.'

'Donald Trump is our president and he deserves respect. We should teach our children that the office of the president ALWAYS deserves respect. Our school system is not the place for nasty political agendas,' she added.

The school's principal later apologized in a letter to parents.

'Intentionally or not, it inappropriately brought a political agenda into what was designed to be a fun family affair,' Principal Dr. Telena Imel wrote.

'Our school, and this includes school events sponsored by related groups, is not the place for politics. In planning future events, it will be made clear to organizers that school is not the place to engage in or to display political agendas or opinions.'

The parents responsible for the game later apologized and Kesterson said she was satisfied.

Meanwhile,  Trump-themed Halloween decorations have been a hit elsewhere.

A Trump scarecrow in Carmel, Indiana - complete with a Jack-o-Lantern head, has become somewhat of a tourist attraction.

The owner of the home is even thinking of making a Vice President Mike Pence scarecrow to add to the collection.

The Trump family is also cashing in on the holiday. On Monday, daughter-in-law Lara Trump posted a picture wearing a Halloween-themed Make America Great Again hat, which is selling on Trump's website for  $45.