It’s the latest in a series of allegations of misconduct against the embattled Orange County district attorney’s office, which along with the Orange County sheriff’s department has been embroiled in a sprawling jailhouse informant scandal for the past three years. At the center of the scandal is the misuse of a sophisticated informant program ― operated by sheriff’s deputies and utilized by prosecutors to secure convictions ― that has allegedly violated the civil rights of numerous defendants and led to the unraveling of more than a dozen murder cases in the county. It also threatens to upend countless more already settled cases.

In a motion filed Friday, Assistant Public Defender Scott Sanders argued an inmate, identified in court documents simply as “Inmate X” to protect his safety, was part of a team of informants that sheriff’s deputies deployed against Paul Smith to obtain damning evidence while Smith was awaiting trial for murder. But Sanders says that during the Smith proceedings, this informant was illegally concealed from the defense by the lead prosecutor on the case, Assistant District Attorney Ebrahim Baytieh.

Sanders also alleges that Orange County Sheriff’s Department Sgt. Raymond Wert engaged in covering up a formerly secret log maintained by sheriff’s deputies in the jail by trying to have the log terminated before it was made public. Sanders argues Wert wanted the log to be kept hidden, fearing that if information deputies had written about Inmate X and other informants in the jail were to be made public, it could jeopardize the Smith conviction and others.

In 1988, Robert Haugen was found dead in his apartment ― stabbed 18 times and his body set on fire in what was apparently an attempt to destroy crime scene evidence. His murder would go unsolved for 20 years. But in 2009, Paul Smith was arrested for the slaying when his DNA was matched to blood found inside Haugen’s apartment.

While Smith awaited his trial inside Orange County jail, he was assigned to a section of the jail called “L-20.” Unbeknownst to him, the unit was stocked with informants, and doubled as an “informant tank” ― a housing area managed by sheriff’s deputies where some inmates work secretly for the government as informants and are given access to multiple government targets in order to glean information that can be used against them in court.

It was there in dayroom, Sanders details, that Smith would encounter Arthur Palacios, a longtime jail informant, as well as other inmates whose identity is still unknown publicly, including “Inmate X,” “Inmate Y” and “Inmate Z.” According to Palacios, Smith began to to chat with him about details of the Haugen murder ― and did so without any questioning or direction from OCSD deputies. Palacios also says Smith began to speak to Inmate X, whom he hoped to enlist in a plot to harm Wert ― an OCSD investigator who interviewed Smith about the killing ― as well as harm a witness to the Haugen murder.

In a strange twist, as Smith allegedly tried to involve Inmate X in the plan to attack Wert, Inmate X was released from jail. But Smith continued to communicate with Inmate X, Palacio says, and said that Inmate X was still working on the plot and had conversations with Smith’s wife about carrying out the proposed attack. Ultimately though, Smith’s wife decided she didn’t want to carry out the “hit” with Inmate X.

Despite Palacios’ career as an informant, during the Smith trial Baytieh identified him as a former informant who had essentially gone into retirement but just coincidentally found himself talking to Smith about his case in ways that would prove helpful to the prosecution. Further, Baytieh never revealed that Inmate X was an informant who was allegedly involved in a plot to attack a law enforcement officer and a witness, but was never investigated or charged with a crime for doing so ― a detail that Sanders says clearly indicates Inmate X was working as an informant during the alleged plot.

Baytieh also never told Smith that Smith was literally surrounded by informants in dayroom, Sanders writes; this robbed Smith of the ability to at least challenge Palacios’ claims that he didn’t know who Smith was and that the two had a chance encounter in which Smith told him details of the murder without any leading questions.

“We took care to not only send the information to his attorney but also his appellate attorney and we look forward to litigating this in court,” Schroeder told HuffPost. OCDA also sent HuffPost the letter from Baytieh to Smith’s attorney and appellate attorney dated June 24, 2016. In it, Baytieh describes the contents of the Special Handling log and reiterates that the prosecutor admitted Palacios was an informant, but does not acknowledge that Baytieh knew the other members of the dayroom group were informants or when he first learned this. The OCDA would not provide HuffPost with the log entries described in the letter. When asked if Smith’s defense counsel received copies of the log entries, Michelle Van Der Linden, OCDA spokesperson said, “I just spoke with Mr. Baytieh and he stated that, at the time, the letter you reviewed was drafted the ‘Special Handling Log’ was under protective order by the court however, Mr. Baytieh provided all of the relevant excerpts to Mr. Smith’s attorney.” When HuffPost asked when Baytieh first became aware that other inmates mentioned in the letter were informants, Van Der Linden said Baytieh told her he “became aware of it when our office received/reviewed the log, which was May 10, 2016.” If Inmate X is one of the informants described in the letter and Baytieh didn’t know that he was an informant until May 2016, the question that remains is why he didn’t prosecute him for his efforts to injure a police officer.

Sgt. Wert and the termination of the Special Handling log

Sanders says he has only recently discovered Inmate X’s role as an informant and the full scope of the informant program inside county jails. The defense attorney has access to a 1,157-page formerly secret database, known as the “Special Handling Log” ― a cache of records, still largely under seal, that were maintained by sheriff’s deputies who worked in a branch of the department called Special Handling that dealt with inmates and jail informants.

More than a year after the log first came to light, OCSD has still not offered its explanation as to why the database was abruptly halted in January 2013, just days after Superior Court Judge Thomas Goethals issued a broad order to turn over such information in the murder case of a defendant named Scott Dekraai.

One person who may know why the log was terminated is Wert.  According to one of the final entries in the log, Wert was one of two officers who communicated the decision to end, and replace, the log during a special handling unit meeting. That entry became public when about 240 pages of the log were unsealed and released last year:

Sanders argues Wert ordered the termination of the log in 2013 because he already understood that the information it contained both about informants used in Smith’s case and the larger jail informant program being operated by his deputies “could ultimately undo Smith, expose misconduct by the entire prosecution team, and have other professional ramifications.” By “quickly” killing the log, Sanders writes, Wert was attempting to “lessen the chances” that he and his colleagues’ secret work would thwart disaster ― the upending of the very convictions that their informant network was used by prosecutors to help secure.

Sanders plans to call dozens from OCSD to testify