BILLINGSGATE POST: Referring to recently released Cold War documents that reveal that former FBI Director James Comey is the son of Julius and Ethel Rosenberg, President Trump believes Comey was covertly working for the Soviet KGB. The Rosenbergs were convicted of espionage for selling Top Secret plans for building a nuclear bomb to the Soviet Union. They were sentenced to death by electric chair and were executed June 19, 1953.

The Rosenbergs had two sons who, because of the notoriety of their parents, were given new names and raised by relatives of the Rosenbergs. The younger of the two siblings was given the name "James Comey." Both James and his brother believed that their mother and father were innocent of the crimes and vowed to seek retribution.

James, who was born one year before the Rosenbergs were executed, surreptitiously joined the Republican Party while in college. He received his Juris Doctor degree from the University of Chicago in 1985. It was there he came into contact with Barack Hussein Obama, who taught a course in Constitutional Law at the university. While under the influence of Obama, Comey was introduced to the head of the Communist Party in Chicago. At the same time, Obama was actively a member of ACORN (Association of Community Organizers), which was a communist front organization headed by radical Saul Alinsky. It was through Alinsky that Comey was introduced to the KGB Agent responsible for espionage in the USA.

From 1985 until 2013, when President Obama named James Comey director of the FBI, Comey remained undercover while serving in various government positions, including United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York. Once becoming FBI Director, he was able to manipulate all investigations that allowed Secretary of State Clinton to sell off American uranium rights to the Soviet Union in exchange for millions donated to the Clinton Foundation.

Documents implicating James Comey's allegiance to the Russian KGB are now being analyzed by the Justice Department.