We met at a local watering hole, where I had a very nice amber ale with my small pizza.  Our current county executive, Kathy Dahlkemper, who is running for reelection, stopped by to campaign.  She managed to tie her campaign to the national Democratic quest to beat back the Republicans and reclaim our traditional territory.  She pointed out that there were only two county executive races in Pennsylvania this year:  Erie County, and another county that is safely blue.  Erie County, as has been reported far and wide, swung to the Republican presidential candidate in 2016 for the first time since 1984.  Some pundits in the state are calling this particular election a bellwether for this reason, and it has made Dahlkemper a target of the GOP.  She said she was participating in strategy session with the governor, and Washington pols were calling her.  Has the political make-up of the county permanently changed after the election of 2016, or will disillusionment with Trump cause a swing back to the Democrats this year?  Carolyn Fiddler’s post from earlier today gives me hope that, like other regions of the country, erie County is ready to spring back to the D column.  Dahlkemper has been a competent executive in the face of some difficult situations, including the announced closure of General Electric’s Erie locomotive plant, which will cause the loss of over a thousand of jobs in the region.  She supports the effort to bring a community college to the county (you heard that right—the fourth most populous region in Pennsylvania has no community college—and there is significant pushback to the idea of establishing one).  Her reelection looks like it will be an uphill battle, but it’s one we had better win.

In addition, the president of the committee is running for Count Council.  She handed out postcards for us to address in preparation for them to be mailed out to Democrats far and wide throughout the county.  Realistically, I don’t know what her chances are.  While there are more Democrats than Republicans registered in the district, the county council representative for this district has been Republican since I moved here.  As always, the challenge is getting our voters to the polls.

Yard signs were distributed.  At least a half dozen events were mentioned where candidates could campaign.  Lord knows how many I will be able to go to—I have a job, y’know?

I will continue my effort to try to get my students registered to vote.  Every election year, I manage to register a few dozen at most, but in a local election, that could be enough to swing a close local election.

On to the comments:

In the diary by Runyonr about the Iraqi-American whose family was arrested after he wanted to deposit a check for the sale of a home at a Kansas bank - while most speculated about the motives behind it, Dave in AZ believes ... he simply selected the wrong banking institution.

I nominate thejeff's comment in my diary Do we tell WWC the truth, or win elections?.  thejeff says the opposite of what my diary said - sort of, on the face of it. But he actually got the dilemma that I am worrying about, and offers a really smart take on it - instead of racism being a cudgel to end all discussions, we need to talk about the subtle pervasive variety of racism, and find ways to counter it (even saying the r-word is enough at this point to bring the shutters down with many).

Top Mojo is courtesy of mik! Click here for more on how Top Mojo works.