Most of us are familiar with the Sun as the main source of visible light and energy on our planet. There is another phenomenon of the Sun – it’s magnetic influence on us, and every living thing on the planet – which fewer are familiar with. The domain of the sun’s magnetic influence (also known as the “heliosphere”) extends billions of kilometers beyond Pluto. This magnetic field has profound effects on all living things on Earth and strongly affects human consciousness. You could say the sun is changing its tune, but we need to know how to listen so that we can harmonize with its music.

We can see this influence created by solar activity throughout certain periods of human history, often marked by social and psychological unrest.

However, the sound of the Sun, which has been compared to the sound of OM, can also be recreated into a musical harmony, as discovered by a team of astronomers at the University of Sheffield, headed by Professor Robertus von Fáy-Siebenbürgen. These scientists have been studying the magnetic loops on the outer layer of the Sun’s atmosphere – known as coronal loops – and have discovered that they behave like sound vibrations of musical instruments creating a musical harmony. Fáy-Siebenbürgen states,

The scientists have also found that “the loops vibrate backward and forward in a way that mimics the acoustical waves in a wind instrument.”

The sound of the Sun is not something that we can easily hear, because of the composition of the space between the Earth and the Sun and because of the limitations of the human ear. Human beings only hear in a range that includes sound frequencies from about 15 to about 18,000 waves, or cycles, per second. The general range of hearing for young people with good hearing is 20 Hz to 20 kHz.

Though all objects in space have their own sound, since they also have their own frequency of vibration, we are unable to discern them. You can even hear some intriguing radio waves that NASA’s Cassini spacecraft collected near Jupiter, or the earth’s “song” created by plasma waves hitting a radiation belt, but they had to be altered to put them within the human range of hearing.

Audible sound cannot travel through the vacuum of space, however, so the scientists at Sheffield had to recreate visible vibrations generated by the sun’s coronal loops using satellite imaging.

Then, they turned the vibrations into noises and adjusted the frequency so that they could be heard by the human ear. The result was a sort of musical harmonics.

In many ancient religions, the sound of the Sun is considered the most sacred sound of the Universe. It was described by the ancient Hindus in the Vedas thousands of years ago as a mantra that can be intoned with human speech to result in “Aum.”

Although the sound could not be heard audibly by the Vedic scribes, they were still able to identify its existence thousands of years ago, possibly through an elevated consciousness achieved through meditation or yogic practices. Were these humans able to tap into the Universal consciousness and perceive the sound of “all creation”?

Astronomers believe that coronal loops are involved in the production of solar flares, which in turn disseminate highly-charged particles out into space. Increased sun activity can have interesting effects on Earth, including affecting electronic equipment, overheating power grids, and damaging satellites, but they also have an intriguing effect on human consciousness.

Particularly after X-class solar flares, most people experience a host of psychological and physiological symptoms which can include:

Some assert that as the coronal energy hits our biological form – our cells – it awakens deeply held memories and wisdom. This solar energy affects our thoughts, our emotions, and our actions because it is igniting our own conscious ascension. Because the energy of the sun (in the form of massive amounts of photons) is a much higher frequency than what we are used to, it can trigger the release of old, stored emotions, thus causing the symptoms (and others) listed above. Some have called these “ascension symptoms” but essentially we are receiving the same influx of energy which knocks out power grids and messes with WiFi signals.

By understanding the patterns in the “music of the sun”, Professor Fáy-Siebenbürgen believes we can start to better understand, and perhaps even predict, solar flare activity, but we can also predict human unrest and put it into perspective.

These changes will hit us fast, too, because photonic light, or photons (quantum energy) moves at least 10,000 times faster than the light we can see with our eyes. This doesn’t mean we should panic, though, but instead prepare for these psychological and physiological changes and know that they are being instigated by the deep wisdom of the sun’s energy as it too, expands.

The earth receives only one half of one billionth of the sun’s output, and on average, it takes about 100,000 years for a photon to travel from the sun’s core to the surface, but as the sun’s coronal ejections become more intense, we will feel the sun’s “sound” in the form of transformational energy, and its music harmonizes with our own personal frequencies.

Christina Sarich is a staff writer for Waking Times. She is a writer, musician, yogi, and humanitarian with an expansive repertoire. Her thousands of articles can be found all over the Internet, and her insights also appear in magazines as diverse as Weston A. Price, Nexus, Atlantis Rising, and the Cuyamungue Institute, among others. She was recently a featured author in the Journal, “Wise Traditions in Food, Farming, and Healing Arts,” and her commentary on healing, ascension, and human potential inform a large body of the alternative news lexicon. She has been invited to appear on numerous radio shows, including Health Conspiracy Radio, Dr. Gregory Smith’s Show, and dozens more. The second edition of her book, Pharma Sutra, will be released soon.

This article (Sound of the Sun – The Voice of Universal Consciousness) was originally created and published by Waking Times and is published here under a Creative Commons license with attribution to Christina Sarich and WakingTimes.com. It may be re-posted freely with proper attribution, author bio, and this copyright statement. Please contact WakingTimes@gmail.com for more info.

~~ Help Waking Times to raise the vibration by sharing this article with friends and family…