According to washingtonjournal, in the late hours of Monday night, White House Press Secretary issued a surprising statement: the United States has evidence that the murderous regime of Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad was planning to launch a chemical weapon attack on civilians.

“The United States has identified potential preparations for another chemical weapons attack by the Assad regime that would likely result in the mass murder of civilians, including innocent children. The activities are similar to preparations the regime made before its April 4, 2017 chemical weapons attack. As we have previously stated, the United States is in Syria to eliminate the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria. If, however, Mr. Assad conducts another mass murder attack using chemical weapons, he and his military will pay a heavy price.”

However, BuzzFeed News is reporting that at least five defense officials from the Pentagon have no idea what the White House is talking about and were not warned that the White House was going to be issuing this statement.

The Syrian regime allegedly launched a sarin gas attack on the rebel-held town of Khan Sheikhoun in Idlib province on April 4th that killed as many as eighty civilians.

President Trump responded by launching sixty or so Tomahawk missiles on the airfield used to allegedly launch the responsible bomber. A few jets and personnel were killed, but the attack ultimately did nothing to hinder the Syrian regime’s ability to slaughter the innocent from the skies and the airfield was operational once again the next day.

The official excuse was that Trump was apparently “very moved” by the gruesome images of dead children that were widely circulated on social media. “Those beautiful little babies” simpered the President.

An unlikely story. Trump has never shown any interest in the suffering of the Syrian people and in fact had made a point to demonize the enormous waves of Syrian refugees fleeing the atrocities of the Assad regime and the repression of al-Qaeda groups and made it a central campaign promise to ban them from entering the United States.

Donald Trump isn’t even known for caring about the children in his own family; he once refused to pay for his grand-nephew’s cerebral palsy treatment because the boy’s father had sued Donald’s father, and has shown little affection for any of his own children.

The missile strike was nothing more than an elaborate firework show, a show of force ordered from the dinner table to impress Chinese Premier Xi Jinping and to distract the public from the escalating investigation into his campaign team’s potentially treasonous collusion with agents of the Russian Federation.

Trump learned a very important lesson from that strike – that a show of violence would bring the American political establishment together, united at the prospect of destruction.

The once-hostile media fawned over him. Brian Williams of the “fake news” channel MSNBC obsessed about the “beauty of American weapons.” Fareed Zakaria of the “Clinton News Network” gushed about how “Donald Trump became the President of the United States” with that strike.

Democrats ostensibly leading the #Resistance found themselves applauding his actions. House Minority Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-NY) both issued statements congratulating the President. Even former presidential rival Hillary Clinton said she approved of the strike.

A minor boost in the polls was the icing on the cake. Now, Trump knows that anytime he needs a distraction – like when the Senate is set to pass a bill that will strip healthcare coverage from 22 million Americans – he can rattle his proverbial sword and distract the political establishment simply by expending a few hundred million dollars of taxpayer money.

Given that the White House has been shamelessly lying about everything under the sun ever since Trump took office, we are now faced with a disturbing prospect. Is the President of the United States inventing a war crime and risking a major international war just for a cheap political stunt?