As media moguls, investment bankers and lenders descend on Sun Valley on Tuesday for the annual Allen & Co. conference, several executives will be under pressure to do deals to keep up with rivals — while others may look to hook up to stay competitive in a quickly evolving sector, one media insider told The Post.

During some years, the deals seem to flow out of the Idaho mogulfest like streams of spring snowmelt, but other years are oddly quiet.

Here are the companies most likely to do deals during the week, according to interviews with media bankers and analysts.

It must overcome its “paralysis by analysis,” said a media banker. The country’s No. 1 wireless carrier can expect its network advantage to last about two more years, bankers said.

Rival AT&T now has 134.2 million subscribers versus Verizon’s 146 million — and if AT&T gets regulatory approval of its Time Warner deal, it could soon be offering HBO content to its wireless customers.

“Verizon has been pitched every idea out there — they just haven’t picked one,” one banker said.

That’s why all eyes will be on Verizon Chief Executive Lowell McAdam at the Sun Valley. Possible partners include Charter Communications, a deal that would make Verizon a dominant cable-wireless player, bankers said.

The cable-entertainment companies continue to get squeezed — or threatened with blackouts — every time a carriage contact comes up for renewal.

Meanwhile, Netflix, Amazon and now Facebook continue to create content — upsetting an already eroding cable bundle.

FBN analyst Robert Routh sees a day when AMC or Viacom or both elect not to renew a pay-TV distribution contract but partner exclusively instead with an over-the-top operator.

“AMC could then tell its 50 million subscribers something like, ‘You want to watch ‘The Walking Dead,’ log onto Facebook,’ he said.

Although the ink isn’t dry on the merger deal between the two TV shopping channels, some are already wondering when Liberty Interactive’s John Malone — who would own both networks — will return the combo to the market.

“The question is do they keep it forever or keep it long enough to make it pretty for someone else,” a source said.

James Dolan’s regional sports network, The Post reported in April, is sounding out suitors.

Could the owner of the TV rights for the Knicks, Rangers, Devils and Islanders land a partner, observers are asking.

Price could be a problem, as rival Yes Network fetched 16 times cash flow when sold in 2014. MSG trades at seven times cash flow.