The Department of Justice announced Friday it will not charge former IRS official Lois Lerner in the highly controversial IRS scandal, which saw numerous Conservative groups allegedly targeted by the Department.

President of Judicial Watch Tom Fitton released a powerful statement following the reports that Lois Lerner would not be charged in the IRS scandal.

I have zero confidence that the Justice Department did an adequate review of the IRS scandal. In fact, we’re still fighting the Justice Department and the IRS for records about this very scandal. Today’s decision comes as no surprise considering that the FBI collaborated with the IRS and is unlikely to investigate or prosecute itself. President Trump should order a complete review of the whole issue. Meanwhile, we await accountability for IRS Commissioner Koskinen, who still serves and should be drummed out of office.

The FBI 302 documents confirm the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA) 2013 report that said, “Senior IRS officials knew that agents were targeting conservative groups for special scrutiny as early as 2011.” Lerner did not reveal the targeting until May 2013, in response to a planted question at an American Bar Association conference.  The new documents reveal that then-acting IRS Commissioner Steven Miller actually wrote Lerner’s response: “They used names like Tea Party or Patriots and they selected cases simply because the applications had those names in the title. That was wrong, that was absolutely incorrect, insensitive, and inappropriate.” Judicial Watch’s litigation forced the IRS first to say that emails belonging to Lerner were supposedly missing and later declare to the court that the emails were on IRS back-up systems.  Lerner was one of the top officials responsible for the IRS’ targeting of President Obama’s political opponents.

Documents released in July 2016 revealed the IRS knew of Tea Party targeting since 2011.

The IRS released a list in 2016 of 426 Tea Party and conservative groups that were targeted during the Obama years.

The Gateway Pundit also reported on another shocking abuse by Obama’s IRS uncovered by Judicial Watch. The Reason Alliance, which is a Massachusetts group that worships Satan, created an after school Satanic club for elementary schools. They received their tax exempt status by the IRS within 10 days of applying while Tea Party groups waited years. Pure evil.