The Trump administration has a serious problem with leaks, and they’re doing everything they can to stop them. Unfortunately, evidence shows the struggle doesn’t seem to be going that well. One of the secret steps they’ve taken was just leaked to the public, and people can’t stop laughing about it.

Part of the Trump administration’s ongoing efforts to stop in-house leaks is a 30 minute video entitled, “Unauthorized Disclosure of Information Security Training,” because nothing gets people to listen to you like forcing them to sit through a half an hour long low-budget government film. In what can only be described as sheer ineptitude, the video was uploaded to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services YouTube channel as an “unlisted” video, which means you can only find it if you have the link.

Well, now everybody can find it, because the link is now public information.

If you watched that and thought to yourself, “That doesn’t seem likely to stop leaks,” take heart in the fact that your hard-earned tax dollars paid for it to be created. We can only hope the annoyance presented by the video results in the release of even more information from within the Trump administration. That doesn’t seem too unlikely, considering the video itself was leaked inside of a day.

Twitter immediately erupted with laughter and derision at the fact the anti-leaking video was leaked, as well as how awful the video itself is:

Of course, “leaker” is a weaponized term that in 2017 is essentially meaningless. Much like “fake news,” Trump simply uses it to attack anyone (in the government) who releases information he does not like. It doesn’t matter in the slightest if the information wasn’t classified, or was already available. In fact, Trump has shown that he’s quite willing to be a “leaker,” if the leak should benefit him. Sometimes Trump has been flat-out wrong with his accusations; other times, there is an argument that certain releases constitute whistleblowing more than “leaking.” Oftentimes, whistleblowers have legal protections if they are reporting wrongdoing.