Arizona politicians like John McCain and Jeff Flake may not be big fans of President Trump, but their constituents certainly are. Trump has a rally planned for Tuesday evening, and people have been lining up all day in the 100-degree heat to attend.

While Phoenix residents are excited to attend Trump’s rally, the city’s mayor has a different idea. Mayor Greg Stanton (D) penned an op-ed for The Washington Post on Tuesday asking Trump not to visit his city.

Stanton said in his op-ed that he thinks Trump would do more harm than good by visiting Phoenix at this time, when the country is still hurting from the violence that took place at last weekend’s white supremacist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia.

‘America is hurting. And it is hurting largely because Trump has doused racial tensions with gasoline. With his planned visit to Phoenix on Tuesday, I fear the president may be looking to light a match. ‘That’s why I asked the president to delay his visit. It’s time to let cooler heads prevail and begin the healing process.’

Stanton desperately wants Trump to stay away, especially after rumors have circulated that he will pardon Maricopa County sheriff Joe Arpaio, who was convicted of criminal contempt of court for refusing to stop racial profiling. However, he acknowledged that it’s unlikely Trump will heed his warning.

Stanton then went on to say about Trump pardoning Arpaio:

‘Let’s be clear: A pardon of Arpaio can be viewed only as a presidential endorsement of the lawlessness and discrimination that terrorized Phoenix’s Latino community. Choosing to announce it in Phoenix — especially in the wake of Charlottesville — would add insult to very serious injury and would reveal that the president’s true intent is to further divide our nation.’

The mayor ended his piece by saying that law enforcement in Phoenix will be “working overtime” to keep everyone safe during the rally.

‘In Phoenix, we are working overtime to ensure that everyone will be safe on Tuesday — from the president to those attending his rally and those exercising their First Amendment right to protest. And, like Robert Kennedy, we will remind everyone that we need not division and hatred, but wisdom and compassion.’