Since Attorney General Jeff Sessions announced earlier this month that President Trump plans to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program, protests have taken place all over the country condemning the decision and calling on Congress to pass legislation that will protect the hundreds of thousands of undocumented immigrants who now face deportation. One such protest took place on Tuesday afternoon outside of Trump Tower in New York City, and three Democratic members of Congress were arrested for joining the group of demonstrators.

Representatives Raul Grijalva (D-Arizona), Luis Gutierrez (D-Illinois), and Adriano Espaillat (D-New York) were arrested after they sat with other demonstrators on the sidewalk outside Trump Tower and refused to move.

The Democratic speaker of New York’s City Council, Melissa Mark-Viverito, was also handcuffed and led away from the protest.

Candace Randle Person, a spokeswoman for Espaillat, who is the first member of Congress to have previously been an undocumented immigrant, confirmed in an email to POLITICO that the New York lawmaker had been arrested while standing up for immigrant youth.

‘Espaillat stood up for immigrant youth to say loud and clear – unequivocally, that he dedicates his work in Congress to protecting immigrants, immigrant families, and their future in America. Since day one, the Trump Administration has threatened Latinos, Muslims, LGBT, women and the list continues. His decision to end the DACA program earlier this month increased the urgency of what’s at stake and the lives at risk when we fail to speak out against racism in America.’

A spokeswoman for Grijalva did not immediately reply to an email from POLITICO seeking confirmation that he had been arrested, but photos of him being led away in handcuffs by the police have been circulating online.

The response to Gutierrez, Grijalva, and Espaillat’s arrests on social media has been mixed, and many people have criticized them for choosing to stand with DACA recipients. At the same time, plenty of others have thanked them for their efforts and dedication to the cause.

President Trump, who addressed the United Nations General Assembly in New York on Tuesday morning, is scheduled to stay at Trump Tower this evening, but he wasn’t present during the protest.