Lara Trump's newborn son is only two weeks old, but the mom is already back to work for her father-in-law.

The 34-year-old, who welcomed her first child with husband Eric, 33, on September 12, has filmed another hurricane relief clip for President Trump's administration in the wake of the humanitarian crisis following the devastation caused by Hurricane Maria.

In the nearly two-minute clip posted on the president's Facebook page, Lara discusses Trump's efforts to help the hurricane victims in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, as she urges her fellow Americans to donate to charities helping the survivors of the unprecedented natural disaster.

'President Trump is working to ensure that all federal agencies are coordinating closely with local and island leaders, including Governor Rossello and Governor Mapp, to deliver emergency resources to citizens throughout the islands,' she says in the short video.

'The president is planning on visiting the islands personally on Tuesday to assess the federal disaster response and show his support for all of those affected.'

Although Lara has a baby boy at home, the new mom looks well-rested in a sleeveless red dress that complements the American flag pictured in the background.

Lara goes on to say that Americans 'have rallied as never before' to aid survivors of Hurricane Harvey and Hurricane Irma, explaining 'it's time to for us to come together once again to support our fellow Americans impacted by Hurricane Maria through financial donations, volunteer time, and lots of prayer'.

She then offers up a list of charities Americans can donate to, including the American Red Cross, United for Puerto Rico and The Salvation Army.

The animal rights advocate also reminds viewers they can support animal relief efforts through the ASPCA, The Humane Society and Best Friends Animal Society.

'Our thoughts and prayers go out to all of our fellow Americans in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands who have been impacted,' she says at the end of the clip.

'We want you to know that we will be there to support you for the long hall until you recover better and stronger than ever before.'

Lara's words come at a time where Trump is facing growing backlash over the government's response to the natural disaster in Puerto Rico after Hurricane Maria tore through the island that is home to 3.4 million Americans, most of whom remain without power or drinking water.

According to the Federal Emergency Management agency, nearly have the population of Puerto Rico is without power and still doesn't have excess to suitable drinking water.

The president is preparing a visit to Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands on Tuesday, and on Friday he took to Twitter to boast about his administration's response to the ire of his critics.

'Puerto Rico Governor Ricardo Rossello just stated: "The Administration and the President, every time we've spoken, they've delivered,"' he tweeted. 'The fact is that Puerto Rico has been destroyed by two hurricanes. Big decisions will have to be made as to the cost of its rebuilding!'

'Thank you to FEMA, our great Military & all First Responders who are working so hard,against terrible odds,in Puerto Rico. See you Tuesday!'

Trump also defended his relief efforts on Thursday, tweeting: 'FEMA & First Responders are doing a GREAT job in Puerto Rico. Massive food & water delivered. Docks & electric grid dead. Locals trying really hard to help but many have lost their homes. Military is now on site and I will be there Tuesday. Wish press would treat fairly!'

As a doting daughter-in-law, Lara hasn't let her pregnancy or the birth of her son get in the way of fulfilling her role as a hose of President Trump's official campaign videos.

She was offered the role back in August, and has since been appearing in regular video posts on Facebook to share with viewers a weekly recap of Trump's various accomplishments - or 'wins' - from the past seven days.

Her most recent clips, however, see her tackle a much more serious topic - the disastrous impact of Hurricane Harvey, Hurricane Irma, and now Hurricane Maria.

Earlier this month, Lara filmed a hurricane relief video for the Trump administration, just days before giving birth to her son Luke.

In a video posted to the official Donald J. Trump for President YouTube channel, Lara can be seen sitting in front of an American flag backdrop, looking every inch the budding news anchor in a white suit jacket.

'As we reflect on the anniversary of 9/11 this week, and all of those lost on that day of evil attacks on our freedoms, we are reminded of the tests of our resolve in our nation's history, and the ways that we always ultimately unite as one America,' she says at the start of the video.

'Such a test is underway right now, as more of our fellow Americans are battling Hurricane Irma and its aftermath, while others are recovering from Hurricane Harvey.'

As images of Trump offering food to victims of the hurricanes appear on screen, she continues: 'In times such as these we see the strength and the resolve of the American spirit, and we see the kindness and courage of people nationwide.

'In Texas, Louisiana, Florida, Puerto Rico, the US Virgin Islands, and everywhere in between, we have this message for you: We are here for you, with prayers, financial assistance, volunteer work, and a fervent commitment to help you recover, repair, and come back stronger than ever before.'

She then continues to remind people that 'President Trump, his cabinet, and his entire administration are working closely with state and local officials and private sector organizations to help save lives, protect families, and assist those in need'.

Finally, Lara informs people how they can help to donate money and supplies to charities that are helping victims of the hurricanes, and how those affected by the natural disasters can seek help.