One of the earliest definitions of magic is the “ art of influencing events and producing marvels using hidden natural forces ” .
I know that most people don ’ t believe in magic , but what if I told you that we all perform magic simply by speaking and writing words .
As if the world wasn ’ t bizarre enough as it is , you will now learn that the words we choose to use in our everyday thoughts have magical elements to them and you ’ re casting spells when you speak and write .
It is with a spoken word .
Words that transform into frequencies and vibrations that can be used to direct energy .
Numbers have magical elements also .
In fact , the numeral and alphabet system were created based on sacred geometry and sacred sound , and therefore numbers and letters have magical properties to them .
The art of magic is often practiced with certain sacred magnetic words .
These sound tones have powerful vibrational patterns , which are used to direct and control energy and allows you to harness its power , if Sound is one of the natural forces used by Nature to create crystalline structures and sacred geometries , which are some of the building blocks of matter .
In the beginning was the Word , and the Word was with God , and the Word was God .
In most cultures , the WORD is equated with god .
The WORLD and the WORD are only an L apart .
God created the WORLD with the WORD .
We are Gods Light in the World .
The Watchers , ( the FALLEN ANGELS by GOD , dominate and control this world by using magical hidden forces .
The world is being dominated by evil magical forces .
Until you learn how magic is being used to control you , you will never know how the world really works .
One example is through the careful construction of the English language , designed and put together in a way that produces magical effects and can manipulate those who are unaware of the words true meaning .
A very handy tool for those who wish to control you Magic Spells Here is a great example of how words are used to cast spells without us even being aware of it .
We awake each morning and go off during the weekdays to earn a living at various jobs and undertakings , until we come to the weekend .
This seems perfectly acceptable to most people , but remember that A wake is a social gathering associated with death , held before a funeral .
Mourning is the state you are in grief over someone ’ s death .
And you would to earn a living , since urns are for the ashes of the dead .
We call our jobs undertakings .
The word also can mean the profession of funeral management .
The word ‘ JOB ’ is a Hebrew word for persecuted .
We get the weak end of the deal , as we become weakened ourselves .
We are not taught about this form of magic because it has been hidden from us by the kings and rulers of this world , from our past and the present .
The purpose knowing the true intention of language and the powers that we all truly posses inside .
The Dark Forces have been controlling people ’ s life perceptions using magic spells for a very long time now .
Their magic spells can not control 100 percent of your mind , but they do affect your mind more than you may realize , just like how subliminal messages can affect your subconscious to a large degree .
When you speak or write words , you are casting your thoughts and vibrations into the Earth ’ or Aether which is the energy field or the “ law of attraction ” if you will , that helps create and shape your reality of Earth .
If you are not careful with what you say or think , you can actually cast a spell without even being aware of it .
Have you ever wondered why one of the first things they teach you to do in school is learn how to “ spell ?
” You ’ re taught the alphabet and how to count numbers , which are designed These letters & numbers are ideograms which are written symbols that represent ideas .
After learning the alphabet , you are taught how to “ spell ” using the letters of the alphabet .
Why do you think they call it SPELLING ?
Because You are casting SPELLS when you write or speak .
After learning how to spell words , you are taught to “ cast ” those “ spell-ings ” into sentences .
The term “ sentence ” in law refers to punishment .
When you curse or use swear words negative energy and that can lead to many negative outcomes , such as violence , emotional suffering , anxiety and many other harmful situations .
That ’ s why they call it cursing , because you are casting a spell with those cursing WORDS that cut like a SWORD .
“ The pen is mightier than the sword ” – Edward Bulwer-Lytton On the other hand , when you say or think positive and loving words , you ’ re creating and directing a positive loving energy .
When you say the words I think you ’ re a wonderful human being ” you ’ re casting a loving spell that transfers your good vibrations to the other person and can activate beautiful euphoric feelings .
The most powerful thing in the world is loving energy .
The dark forces have been trying for a very long time now to suppress the beautiful energy that our creator gave us and have been manipulating and corrupting everything that they can get their hands on , but one thing that they can not control , is your FREE t speak negatively about yourself , even as a joke .
Your body doesn ’ t know the difference .
Words are energy and cast spells , that ’ s why it ’ s called spelling.
” – Bruce Lee Dr Masaru Emoto created a famous experiment with water and reports that water is a “ blueprint for our reality ” and that emotional “ energies ” and “ vibrations ” could change its physical structure .
His water crystal experiments consisted of exposing water in glasses to various words , pictures , examining the ice crystal properties with microscopic photography .
He claims that water exposed to positive speech and thoughts created visually “ pleasing ” ice crystals , and that negative intentions yielded “ ugly ” ice formations .
The word “ Occult ” means secret or knowledge of the hidden .
Its early masters were regarded as true magicians .
Discoveries in the occult arts of astrology and alchemy gave birth to modern science .
“ If you want to find the secrets of the universe , think in terms of energy , We can trace the occult teachings back 5000 years ago in Egypt .
The Egyptians believed this knowledge was given to them by Thoth , the Egyptian God of magic , who is said to have given the world writing , language and numbers .
Legends held that a book of magic written by Thoth contained the secrets of the Gods .
This book was considered to be in the astral plane , not physical , but something we have to travel in consciousness to get to .
Much of what is called , the use of magic words , and incantations comes from the ancient Egyptians .
Phoenicians learned this knowledge and then began to spread it throughout the Mediterranean world .
❝Words and magic were in the beginning one and the same thing , and even today words retain much of their magical power .
❞ ― Sigmund Freud We know that Hollywood , a Druidic establishment , located in the city of Lost Angels , is a place were magic happens in the movie and music industry , and isn ’ t it made out of Holly Wood , from a Holly Tree and this originates back to the ancient Druids .
A Druid was a member of the elite-ranking class and this society dates back to ancient Celtic cultures .
They are best remembered as religious leaders .
They were also legal authorities , adjudicators , lore keepers , medical professionals , political advisors .
Sound familiar so far ?
Druids are riddled with mysticism and magic and are said to have contact with the spirit world .
Some theorize that the ancient Druids built , as well as other sacred monolithic sites .
Picture from 1832 depicting Druids preparing a wickerwork filled with live humans to be burned as a sacrifice .
It would surprise many to learn that the famous Winston Churchill and William Blake ( an Arch-druid ) were Druids !
How to Protect Yourself from Secret Spells Once you are aware and cautious of the words you choose to use , then you will begin to protect yourself from negative energies and begin making positive changes in your life .
Start paying attention to origins of a word , dissect its layers , and look at it from many different angles , the true intent and meanings of the word magically become noticeable inside your mind .
So , next time you look up a definition of a word , do not only look at it at face value , but also look at its origins , prefix , and suffix .
This is very useful information for you to keep in mind and apply to the real world .
Once you realize that magic is real evil empire of Dark Magicians are using magic spells to control you , then their magic spells lose their effects .
Your awareness is one of the most important spiritual powers that you have .
Learn how to use it wisely and the Dark Magicians will not be able to control you .
To learn how to use the power of your awareness wisely , you need to learn the right knowledge .
With the right knowledge , you can learn to use your energy in ways that you would never image to @