The very definition of having Integrity means to live in accordance with your deepest values , conducting a life based on high moral standards and consistently demonstrating uncompromising ethical principles .
To stand up for what you believe in and what you believe is the right thing to do .
It signifies adopting an unwavering dedication to doing the right thing by embodying the nature of goodness and honesty , even when no one is watching .
In other words , it ’ s about being able to look at yourself in the mirror with your head held high , best you can to make things right in any given situation and it is being able to have the courage to always stand up to what you believe is the right thing to do , even when it goes against the general narrative .
This is the most crucial time in all of our lives to do what is right , to have integrity and to stand up to Tyranny wherever it arises .
If it means losing your job , then so be it .
Set an example to those around you for your people IS the Right Thing to DO .
If there was ever a time where we all needed to engage in moral integrity , it is Right now .
What we are currently witnessing all over the world is Tyranny by the shadow governments and it ’ s only going to get much worse than what we are seeing now .
This is why they keep saying that this is “ The New Normal ” because this is the beginning phase of how they wish to keep us enslaved .
Wearing anyone and in a paranoid state of fear all the time .
Does this sound like the kind of world you wish to live in ?
I often wonder why all these officials and doctors are all going along for the ride .
They must be being paid an absurd amount of money , or their lives are being threatened if they don ’ t comply .
Our freedoms are slowly being removed because so many people are just going along with this charade .
It ’ s basically the flu repackaged .
re-packaging the seasonal flu into the ( COVID-19 ) pandemic , then they get the reaction from the public , quite naturally they are scared , so they ask for help , and then they present the solution , the ( mRNA Vaccine . )
This is a very old trick and has been used for a very long time .
This pandemic has been subliminally programmed in movies , tv shows , speeches and interviews .
Google , Facebook , YouTube , Twitter and all the other major social network platforms are checkers who wouldn ’ t know the truth even if they were slapped in the face with it .
These companies are obviously working closely together with each other to prevent the truth from coming out .
Our police , military , politicians and reporters are lacking of good Integrity Big Time .
We are witnessing before our very eyes the forming of the New World Order .
This will bring the darkest possible reality to our world that any of us can ever image and it seems as if most of these falling right into their trap .
You will be hearing a lot about a “ Great Reset ” and they will paint a picture for you to believe that this will be great thing for the whole world , but they are also letting us know , if you have the ears to hear and the eyes to see , that what they are really planning is world domination to bring forth their plans for a New World Order and corruption at the very highest level imaginable .
While we were asleep at to abuse their positions of Power and control over us .
This bizarre New World Order or Great Reset that they wish to implement , is all about taking away all of our freedoms , our Rights , our loved ones , our property and enslaving us into a system that comes straight off of a science fiction movie , just like in the Hunger Games or Divergent movie .
We have let Big Tech Giants , Dirty Politicians , and Government control take over our lives by locking us up in our NOW is the Time to take it back !
Us sovereign human beings don ’ t need a Government that wants to suppress us , or Lie to us .
This whole virus thing has been planned out a long time ago .
Just like George Orwell said : “ If you want a picture of the future , imagine a boot stamping on a human face , forever .
The moral to be drawn from this dangerous nightmare situation is a simple one .
Don ’ t let it happen .
It “ ALL IN ” with their Evil Plans for this NWO AND THEY WILL STOP AT NOTHING TO SUCCEED .
It is only up to us to stop them from getting away with all these lunatic tyrannical crimes against humanity .
Unfortunately , many people are falling for this trap fairly easily and look at people such as myself as a conspiracy theorist and discard the mountain of evidence that is right underneath their noses .
No one is coming to save us !
There is army or Superhero that will fight them to all of us to unite and use your skills to help us in any way you can before it ’ s too late .
We Are all Brothers and Sisters and if we don ’ t unite now then our future for our children and for future generations will look just like George Orwell predicted in his book “ 1984 ” .
This is absolutely what biblical prophecy is all about .
The prophecy for the “ Mark of the Beast ” is happening right now and it is up to US t happen us .
The last time we witnessed something of this proportion was in NAZI Germany , directed by the same cabal entity that we see now .
“ The media ’ s the most powerful entity on earth .
They have the power to make the innocent guilty and to make the guilty innocent , and that ’ s power .
Because they control the minds of the masses .
”