New York State Democrat Governor Andrew Cuomo is taking heat following a report by the New York State attorney general that found the state ’ s nursing home deaths were undercounted by about 50 percent .
According to New York State Attorney General Letitia James ’ investigation , the New York State health commissioner updated the total nursing home deaths to 12,743 from 8,711 .
The increase in COVID-19 nursing home deaths were attributed to the way the state counted the deaths .
The lower number was achieved because it was restricted to individuals who died of COVID-19 in the that got the infection in the nursing home but died later in a hospital .
The attorney general ’ s report also identified cases where the state recorded a lower number of deaths than what actually occurred in nursing homes .
Cuomo held a press briefing on the attorney general ’ s report and his response to the controversy backfired .
At one point Cuomo said , “ Who cares [ if they ] died in the hospital , died in a nursing home ?
They died.
” The significant loss of life was tied to a state directive from Cuomo that these facilities must accept COVID-19 patients .
Early on Cuomo tried to blame his nursing home decision on the Trump administration ’ s Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) guidance that required him to issue his New York State order .
However , Cuomo ignored the specific conditions in the CDC guidance .
Former Assistant Health and Human Services Secretary Brett Giroir exposed Cuomo ’ s attempted deception on Fox News .
Giroir called Cuomo ’ s claim , “ absolutely very specific conditions that would allow a COVID-19 patient in a nursing home , saying , “ …the CDC guidelines made rare exceptions to return patients to nursing homes only when the proper equipment , training and facility isolation protocols were available.
” Giroir also said Cuomo “ has to own this one.
” Here is a copy of Cuomo ’ s directive .
Cuomo is totally responsible for sending COVID-19 patients to nursing homes and for their subsequent deaths .
In addition , the underreporting of those deaths raises questions about a , as well as his attempted deception , exposes Cuomo as a horrible governor who puts power and his ego before anything else including the elderly .