As Washington Democrats seek ways to pay for massive current and future government spending , they continue to rely on the false promise of not increasing taxes on ordinary Americans .
The supposed targets are always billionaires , Wall Street , or more broadly , “ the rich.
” Recent proposals from progressive politicians use the generic term “ wealth tax ” to drive their point .
Progressives may believe that cloaking tax schemes in the language of envy may help sell their proposals , but anyone who scratches just a bit beyond the surface sees that the rationale falls wealth taxes ” is that the government should tax the “ unrealized gains ” of peoples ’ assets .
They key here is “ unrealized , ” about which there are two critical dimensions to note .
First , the value of an asset can not be accurately assessed until there is a real transaction .
Anything prior to that is a mere projected value — what someone thinks will end up being the actual value .
Second , if the projected value of an asset — your home , for example , mean you magically have more money in the bank .
That gain exists only on paper — that is , it is unrealized .
The value of assets only becomes real once they are sold — when the gain is realized .
The same goes for stocks , which data shows are owned by more than half of all Americans , with 80 million to 100 million of us owning 401 ( k ) saving and investing plans .
But yet , some politicians want to tax those “ gains ” as if regime would force people to pay taxes regardless .
So if the projected value of your home rises , you would be taxed on that perceived rise , even as your income remains the same , or possibly goes down .
Wealth taxes would force people who own certain assets like stocks and other similar assets to sell them just to pay the taxes .
That reduces people ’ s nest eggs — money that they plan to use for retirement or for a rainy day .
And for the assets that remain go down in value as stocks and other assets are devalued through forced sales .
And the economic impact will be exponentially worse given the effect on small businesses .
Everyone , from the struggling sole proprietorship fighting to survive in the era of COVID-19 to mom-and-pop retailers , will find themselves in the IRS ’ s crosshairs .
It may surprise some to know that 99 % of U.S. businesses are small , and that 120 million Americans — nearly half of all workers — are employed by small businesses .
The in underserved communities .
Hispanic Americans , for example , start small businesses at a rate three times that of the general population and have seen some positive growth , especially pre-pandemic , despite facing unique challenges that include access to capital .
These businesses are key to wealth and job creation , especially in the communities where they are located .
But small businesses are assets , after all , meaning that they will become easy prey for bureaucrats eager to fulfill their mission of lining government coffers to pay for the value of the small business rises — again , on paper — owners would be forced to find ways to pay for these new , punitive taxes , undoubtedly leading to significant job losses .
But even workers who don ’ t lose their jobs will feel the impact directly .
The American Action Forum analyzed so-called wealth taxes from two of their leading champions , Sens .
Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders .
The analysis found workers would be hit with $ 1.2 trillion in lost earnings over the first 10 years that same time span , Bernie Sanders ’ version would cost workers $ 1.6 trillion in lost earnings .
AAF shows that workers would essentially pay “ an effective tax of 63 cents on workers for every dollar the government raises in revenue from the wealthy.
” In their zeal to go after “ the rich , ” progressives in Congress apparently don ’ t mind hurting average Americans and making their pursuit of the American dream even more difficult .
__________________________ Mario H. Lopez is the president of the Hispanic Leadership Fund promotes liberty , opportunity , and prosperity for all Americans .