The State Department issued a fact sheet that provides evidence suggesting COVID-19 may have escaped from the Wuhan Institute of Virology Laboratory ( WIV ) in China .
The report reveals U.S. intelligence claims researchers at the WIV developed a COVID-19 type illness in the fall of 2019 .
Moreover , researches at the WIV were conducting experiments with a coronavirus called RaTG13 derived from bats that shares a 96.2 percent similarity to the genetic makeup of COVID-19 scientifically known as SARS-CoV-2 .
The two data points – illness of lab workers and experiments with a similar coronavirus at WIV accidental releases of viruses in China suggests but does not prove COVID-19 origin was from the WIV and not a result of mother nature .
The fact that WIV engages in “ gain-of-function ” research including RaTG13 , which caused the 2013 death of miners , adds support to the concern that COVID-19 was lab-based .
The release from the State Department correlates with the start of the World Health Organization ( WHO ) investigation of the origin of COVID-19 in Wuhan .
In addition , China is being accused of deleting scientific team is one of two outside groups investigating the origins of COVID-19 .
Making matters worse , one of the individuals on both teams , Dr. Peter Daszak , has a significant conflict of interest since he has worked with and funded the WIV .
My Newsmax Insider commentary last year discussed Daszak ’ s role with one of the investigative teams : Daszak is leading the investigation of the origin of COVID-19 but he has a significant conflict of interest .
The problem is Daszak runs the EcoHealth Alliance — the organization coronavirus research at the Wuhan Institute for Virology .
Clearly , it ’ s in Daszak professional interest if the virus was naturally occurring since he would have a reason to seek more grant money to study bat coronaviruses in China .
With China ’ s history of hiding information coupled with an investigator with a conflict of interest , it ’ s extremely doubtful the lab origin theory will be fairly investigated .
The bottom line is the fix is in .