Nothing good can come from a five-decade politician — with a history of making bad decisions and lying — teaming up with a four-decade career , unaccountable bureaucrat scientist who rides political waves to fame and fortune .
That dangerous combination is exactly what Americans are saddled with regarding President Biden and his chief medical adviser , Dr. Anthony Fauci .
Biden ’ s judgement regarding addressing COVID-19 is as bad as his Afghanistan withdrawal and Fauci , just like the president ’ s Pentagon advisers , supported Biden ’ s pandemic agenda knowing it was going to fail .
especially the president ’ s advisers– tell their boss what he wants to hear as opposed to telling him what they need to hear .
The same dynamic occurs in corporations where the path to fortune can be paved with “ yes men ” and “ yes women ” where the messenger doesn ’ t get shot but gets richly rewarded with bonuses and stock options .
Bureaucrat survival can be rooted in providing advice , washing their hands of the issue , and watching Rome burn .
With Fauci , it ’ not “ follow the science , ” as evidenced by his public health positions on the pandemic mutating nearly as fast as the virus .
Fauci ’ s change in positions align with Biden ’ s vaccine mandates while also abandoning prudent public health measures in order to defend the president ’ s border security crisis .
Fauci is serving as nothing more than Biden ’ s pandemic cheerleader .
He failed to chart a diversified strategy to control the spread of COVID-19 that recognizes natural immunity and vaccine hesitancy .
Likewise , rejected a vaccine mandate .
In a Healthline interview Fauci said , “ I don ’ t think you ’ ll ever see a mandating of vaccines , particularly for the general public.
” More interesting was his position on vaccine hesitancy where Fauci strongly opposed coercion saying , “ They have the right to refuse a vaccine .
I don ’ t think you need a contingency plan .
If someone refuses the vaccine in the general public , then there ’ s nothing you can do about that .
You can ” However , Biden ’ s setting vaccine target goals for the U.S. population included vaccine mandates .
That has Fauci singing a different tune on government power , shifting from a libertarian to a tyrant .
On CBS ’ s “ Face the Nation , ” Fauci said , “ Put aside all of these issues of concern about liberties and personal liberties and realize we have a common enemy and that common enemy is the virus.
” Fauci , also became Biden ’ s attack dog who went after Florida Republican Fauci said , “ When you ’ re dealing with an outbreak of an infectious disease , it isn ’ t only about you.
” He added , “ There ’ s a societal responsibility that we all have.
” During his White House address on the vaccine mandate , Biden expressed frustration and scolded unvaccinated Americans .
Fauci ’ s impatience reflects the president .
Recently , Fauci reiterated his new strong view on vaccines saying , “ There comes a time when you do have to give up what you consider decision for the greater good of society.
” Most appalling , from a scientific perspective , was Fauci ’ s comments on illegal migrants .
On CNN ’ s “ State of the Union , ” Fauci defended Biden ’ s open border policy by attacking Republican concerns about SARS-CoV-2 from travelers and illegal migrants crossing the southern border .
Responding to a poll measuring Republican concerns , Fauci said the problem is “ not driven by immigrants.
” Moreover , Fauci dodged a question on Title 42 that allows the U.S. to but he added , “ My feeling has always been that focusing on immigrants , expelling them…is not the solution to an outbreak.
” Fauci ’ s comments on illegal migrants are outrageous because it defies basic infectious disease control measures .
Last year , cities around the world were on lockdown to slow virus transmission from individuals to individuals .
Now Fauci is turning a blind eye to the risk posed to Americans from illegal migrants crossing the southern border , some of whom were known to have COVID-19 .
The recent Rio , Texas highlighted the public health risk .
The Haitians were largely from South America where COVID variants are prevalent .
Despite the health risk , Biden has allowed at least 12,000 of the illegal migrants to be dispersed around the United States .
Inexplicably , Fauci downplayed the risk to public health .
But the threat by illegal migration can ’ t be ignored .
A rise of COVID-19 cases in South America this year predated the spike that hit the U.S. over the summer raising the possibility the illegal migrant are suffering the consequences of President Biden ’ s terrible decision making that is being enabled by self-serving unaccountable bureaucrats like Dr. Fauci .
Dr. Tom Borelli is a contributor to NewsmaxTV and co-hosts radio programs on SiriusXM Patriot with his wife Deneen Borelli .
He received his Bachelor of Science in Microbiology from Michigan State University and Master of Science and Ph.D. in Biochemistry from New York Medical College .
Read Dr. Tom Borelli ’ s commentaries here .