The Biden administration is drowning on issue after issue , and many of the bubbles are coming from the Rio Grande River .
The problem , which dare not speak its name , is illegal immigration .
The administration , its political party , and the mainstream media refuse to say the very word “ illegal.
” For a while , they called it “ undocumented , ” pretending the migrants somehow forgot their papers in the top dresser drawer in Guatemala or Haiti .
Now , even that bland phrase is deemed too clear and honest .
The new Anything to minimize the problem , sway public opinion , and avoid plain talk .
The obfuscation goes much further than a few phrases .
Consider Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro Mayorkas ’ testimony to Congress last week , where he faced awkward questions about the administration ’ s decision to stop building the border wall , including portions that had already been contracted and paid for .
Mayorkas ’ reply , “ We are not going to construct a border wall along the ragged and jagged cliffs along certain parts of the issue , answering a question that had not been asked so he could avoid answering the one that actually had been .
His misdirection was intentional .
Even hardline Republicans agree that a wall is not needed for remote , rugged areas .
High-tech solutions work well there and cost less .
It ’ s true that Donald Trump once proposed a wall along the entire border .
It ’ s also true that he abandoned that idea long ago .
No one is proposing it now .
What Mayorkas was asked was wall in flat , accessible areas where hundreds of thousands of people have been streaming across .
He had no answer .
So he spewed more bubbles from a drowning administration .
Mayorkas ’ performance illustrates George Orwell ’ s observations in what is perhaps the best essay ever written about politics and the English language .
“ In our time , ” he asserted , “ political speech and writing are largely the defense of the indefensible.
” What Orwell wrote in 1946 is still true .
Some political acts are “ , and … do not square with the professed aims of political parties .
Thus political language has to consist largely of euphemism , question-begging and sheer cloudy vagueness.
” Watching its policies fail catastrophically on the U.S.-Mexican border has not nudged the Biden administration into discussing this issue forthrightly .
The public isn ’ t buying either the gobbledygook or the policies .
In the latest Rasmussen survey , 57 % of likely voters say the government is doing too little to reduce illegal border crossings and visitor overstays .
Only 20 as about right ; 65 % of independent voters say the government is doing too little .
Why are the poll numbers so stark ?
The two most compelling reasons are that illegal border crossings have reached record numbers and the public believes that conditions won ’ t improve without major policy changes .
They ’ re right .
According to official data , first obtained by the Washington Post , “ U.S .
authorities detained more than 1.7 million migrants along the Mexico border during the 2021 fiscal year that ended in Patrol soared to the highest levels ever recorded.
” In October alone , the Border Patrol apprehended over 160,000 people , more than double the number for the previous year and larger than the population of Syracuse , N.Y. That ’ s in one month .
And they keep coming .
Third , the public fears this surge of illegal migration will harm communities far beyond the Texas border , both because the administration is secretly transferring migrants and because drug cartels are using the open border to transport massive quantities of opioids The administration keeps repeating , “ The border is closed , ” but the cartels , coyotes , and caravans know better .
Fourth , voters can see the Biden administration has no answers .
None .
Even worse for Democrats , the best answers are those pursued by his predecessor — the ones Biden junked as soon as he took office .
The administration can not restore those policies without admitting error .
To do so would say , in effect , that President Trump ’ s harsh approach worked better .
’ s left wing and many in the center .
Instead of proposing practical solutions , the administration floated the quixotic idea of fixing the “ root causes of emigration ” in Central America and the Caribbean .
That ’ s an elusive goal at best , and , in any case , would not help the U.S. for years .
It ’ s hand waving , not serious policy .
Since Kamala Harris was handed responsibility for this latest initiative , it ’ s tempting to blame her .
But the failure Biden ’ s .
The White House sent her on a fool ’ s errand .
Washington simply doesn ’ t have the tools needed to reverse the region ’ s endemic poverty , danger , and corruption .
Nor does it have a track record of solving these problems , despite decades of effort .
It ’ s hard to imagine the administration could come up with worse policies , but it is trying .
The administration ’ s latest brainchild is to pay massive sums to every family of illegal immigrants administration .
( They were given the opportunity to return home together but declined . )
The idea is so unpopular the White House refuses to defend it at press briefings .
So does Mayorkas .
All of them say , “ Talk to the Department of Justice.
” The DoJ ’ s lips are sealed .
Finally , the public is starting to connect rampant lawlessness on the southern border with rampant lawlessness in American cities .
After all , Democrats control both and defend their policies on the same specious grounds new terrain inviting .
They have dramatically increased shoplifting , carjacking , armed robberies , and murder .
Police see the same pattern .
When they see mayors refusing to support them and prosecutors refusing to do their jobs , cops on the beat won ’ t do theirs , either .
Why risk your life and career to arrest someone who won ’ t face serious jail time ?
Why chase criminals down mean streets when it ’ s safer to stay in your patrol car ?
Voters are troubled by these officials responsible for them .
That ’ s the message from recent elections in New York City , Buffalo , Minneapolis , Virginia , New Jersey , and now Columbia , S.C. , where a Democrat lost the mayoralty only a year after Biden carried the city by 40 points .
The theme here is the same one heard in the movie “ Network ” : People are “ mad as hell and they ’ re not going to take it anymore.
” That ’ s also the message from the latest poll shows only 27 % of Americans think the country is headed in the right direction .
Illegal immigration is a big part of that “ wrong direction , ” along with inflation and COVID .
The public ’ s frustration is understandable .
Citizens , to use another verboten concept , want to see basic laws enforced and social order restored .
Those aren ’ t unreasonable demands ; they are the most basic responsibilities of government .
Before Washington takes on even more responsibilities and piles on more taxes to pay for social-spending bill , they want it to perform the tasks it already has .
Law-abiding citizens — whatever their race , whatever their income — want to go about their lives in peace .
They want criminals caught and punished so others will be deterred .
They want public servants who understand that responsibility and do their jobs .
That ’ s what Americans are saying in poll after poll , vote after vote .
They have soundly rejected candidates who justify the chaos in the name of social justice and racial equity without prejudice and without excessive force .
They don ’ t want defunding and dismantling .
Their demands are reasonable and realistic .
Meeting them is essential for a stable democracy .
Politicians ignore them at their peril .
Charles Lipson is the Peter B. Ritzma Professor of Political Science Emeritus at the University of Chicago , where he founded the Program on International Politics , Economics , and Security .
He can be reached at charles.lipson gmail.com .