An FBI field office in Virginia collected and distributed evidence that extremists were planning an assault on the Capitol .
The warning was issued a day before the deadly riot but the concern raised by the FBI field office did not result in increased security at the Capitol .
The Washington Post reported on an internal document that revealed , “ extremists were preparing to travel to Washington to commit violence and ‘ war . '
” According to NBC News , the FBI in Washington alerted local law enforcement about threats , including the field office report , but deny seeing the intelligence information .
It was also reported the New York City Police Department provided information to Washington , D.C. law enforcement .
Following the riot at the Capitol , the FBI is aggressively pursuing and arresting individuals who appeared to have participated in the violence .
However , the late actions by the FBI on this incident and others over the years is being called out .
Now erring on the side of caution , the FBI is warning states of protests at their capitol buildings , including New York Commissioner Bernard Kerik on the intelligence leading up to the riot at the Capitol .
By all accounts , the FBI , NYPD and other authorities did exactly what they should have done by conducting interviews and making notifications to the Washington D.C. authorities , ” Kerik said .
“ If these reports are true , you can not incite a group that already pre-planned acts of violence by days or weeks , and it raises serious questions as to what security precautions were taken at the Capitol as a result.
” The of the Capitol Police requested additional security but the request was rejected by top security officials that report to Speaker Nancy Pelosi ( D-CA ) and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell ( R-KY ) .
The deadly assault at the Capitol was an outrageous act that never should have happened .
However , if intelligence reports were acted upon by the law enforcement in Washington , D.C. the entire incident could have been avoided .
It ’ s inexcusable that the Capitol was not secure before such a big day , especially given extremist threats .
Those responsible for the deadly riot must be held accountable but those who failed to secure the Capitol must be held accountable as well for their gross negligence .