Terry McAuliffe sank his Virginia gubernatorial bid with his condescension toward parents , typified in his claim that experts , not parents , were the only ones qualified to choose school curricula .
“ I love Billy and Jack McAuliffe , my parents , but they should not have been picking my math and science book , ” McAuliffe told NBC ’ s Meet the Press .
“ We have experts who actually do that.
” McAuliffe ’ s response was not only tone-deaf – given the grassroots parent revolt against curricula chosen by experts – but it also ignored in Virginia and across the country are picking curricula for their kids , with outstanding academic results .
In Virginia , the number of homeschooled students in 2020–21 rose to nearly 60,000 , from a little more than 38,000 the year before .
Curriculum was a big factor in this growth , and not just because of the highly publicized fights over critical race theory .
Before the election , a local ABC-TV affiliate interviewed Virginia parent Tera Thomas , who said that her kids were falling behind in fundamental skills and were in a public school .
Her children ’ s teachers were unable to address their individual needs .
Like many other parents over the past year or so , Thomas decided to homeschool .
The Census Bureau reports that from spring to fall of 2020 , the proportion of homeschooling households more than doubled , from 5 percent to 11 percent , with the proportion of African-American households choosing to homeschool skyrocketing fivefold , from 3 percent to 16 percent .
Steven Duvall , research director for the Homeschool Legal Defense Association , nationwide could be upwards of 8 million .
Parents of these homeschooled children are choosing the curriculum that best fits their kids ’ learning needs .
Take , for example , Demetria Zinga , who has been cited as one of the country ’ s top black homeschool bloggers and YouTubers .
Zinga notes that homeschooling allows parents to choose and discard a curriculum depending on whether it is working for their child .
“ So , ” she says , “ we might try something for a season and then realize that then try something different.
” Her oldest daughter , Nyomi , learned best with a more structured program , so Zinga chose Classical Conversations , a curriculum that emphasizes skills of recitation , logical thinking , and persuasive rhetoric .
Nyomi said that the curriculum required lots of reading and writing , but “ it was helpful to make me a better writer.
” She graduated from the Classical Conversations program with honors .
By contrast , Zinga ’ s younger daughter , Zoe , is artsy , theatrical , and entrepreneurial , her .
To meet the varying demands of homeschool parents like Zinga , hundreds of curriculum choices are now in the marketplace .
Parents also have tools to make informed decisions as to what will work best for their children .
For instance , homeschoolers have long relied on curriculum expert Cathy Duffy and her website for reviews of materials .
Her book “ 102 Top Picks for Homeschool Curriculum ” is a much-used guide for homeschool parents .
In addition , homeschool academies at charter schools stock a wide array of curricula Carter , head of a homeschool academy at Natomas Charter School in Sacramento , says that parents can also request a curriculum not stocked at the academy .
As long as it meets certain requirements , she says , “ then we order it and sometimes we add it to the selection for everyone.
” With a curriculum better suited for their needs , homeschooled children generally do better academically than their public school peers .
According to Heritage Foundation education director Lindsey Burke , most research shows “ homeschoolers largely outperforming their “ expert ” when it comes to curriculum ?
It is not Terry McAuliffe ’ s experts , but the parents at whom he scoffed .
And that ’ s why America is seeing a homeschool boom .
Lance Izumi is senior director of the Center for Education at the Pacific Research Institute .
He is the author of the new book The Homeschool Boom : Pandemic , Policies , and Possibilities .