Dr. Anthony Fauci , the head of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases at the National Institute of Health , flipped on the origins of the COVID-19 virus .
During an interview at the fact checker PolitiFact event called United Facts of America : A Festival of Fact-Checking , Fauci reversed his initial assertion that the virus was of natural origin and expressed the need to investigate the possibility that COVID-19 was from the Wuhan Institute of Virology Laboratory in China .
Responding to a question on whether he was still confident the virus came from nature , about that.
” Last year , Fauci expressed extreme doubt about the lab accident hypothesis and strongly asserted the virus was from nature .
“ If you look at the evolution of the virus in bats and what ’ s out there now , [ the scientific evidence ] is very , very strongly leaning toward this could not have been artificially or deliberately manipulated … Everything about the stepwise evolution over time strongly indicates that [ this virus ] evolved in nature and then jumped species , ” Fauci ’ s remarks reject the lab origin promoted by then-President Trump and then- Secretary of State Mike Pompeo .
Dinesh D ’ Souza provided his analysis of Fauci ’ s comments at the PolitiFact event .
Watch Fauci discuss claims made against him during the PolitiFact event .
Fauci ’ s sudden reversal is timed with a number of news stories that describe the accumulating evidence that the virus did indeed escape from the Wuhan lab .
Moreover , some of the stories are highlighting the fact that funds from Fauci ’ s NIH unit funded linking him to the creation of the pandemic .
The funding was through an intermediary organization called the EcoHealth Alliance .
Fauci ’ s role in funding the Wuhan lab surfaced in a recent Senate hearing where he sparred with Senator Rand Paul ( R-KY ) .
Following the hearing , Paul provided evidence that Fauci did fund gain-of-function research .
Paul elaborated during an interview on Fox News ’ s Fox & Friends .
The posturing by Fauci is a typical response by a politician and not a research scientist .
Such at NIH .