Debt : The First 5000 Years by David Graeber ( not an MMT book but really helps MMT understanding ) Core Principles The central idea of MMT is that governments with a fiat currency system under their control can and should print ( or create with a few keystrokes in today ’ s digital age ) as much money as they need to spend because they can not go broke or be insolvent unless a political decision to do so is taken .
Some say such spending would be fiscally irresponsible as the debt would balloon and inflation would skyrocket government debt isn ’ t the precursor to collapse we have been led to believe it is , countries like the U.S. can sustain much greater deficits without cause for concern , and a small deficit or surplus can be extremely harmful and cause a recession since deficit spending is what builds people ’ s savings .
MMT theorists explain that debt is simply money the government put into the economy and didn ’ t tax back .
They also argue that comparing a government ’ s budgets to that of an average of the theory acknowledge that inflation is theoretically a possible outcome from such spending , they say it is highly unlikely and can be fought with policy decisions in the future if required .
They often cite the example of Japan , which has much higher public debt than the U.S .
According to MMT , the only limit the government has when it comes to spending is the availability of real resources , like workers , construction supplies , etc .
When government spending is too great with respect to the resources are not careful .
Taxes create an ongoing demand for currency and are a tool to take money out of an economy that is getting overheated , says MMT .
This goes against the conventional idea that taxes are primarily meant to provide the government with money to spend to build infrastructure , fund social welfare programs , etc .
MMT says that a government doesn ’ t need to sell bonds to borrow money , since that is the money it can create on its own .
The government sells bonds to interest rate target .
Thus the existence of bonds , which Mosler calls “ savings accounts at the Fed , ” is not a requirement for the government but a policy choice .
Unemployment is the result of government spending too little while collecting taxes , according to MMT .
It says those looking for work and unable to find a job in the private sector should be given minimum-wage , transition jobs funded by the government and managed by the local community .
This labor would act as a buffer stock in in the economy .
Support for MMT grew in large part thanks to the internet , where economists explained the theory on popular personal and group blogs , the idea of a trillion-dollar coin was widely discussed and supporters shared a clip of former Fed Chair Alan Greenspan saying pay-as-you-go benefits aren ’ t insecure because “ there ’ s nothing to prevent the federal government from creating as much money as it wants and paying it to somebody.
” Tax revenues are not used for government funding under MMT , similar to pay for its expenses .
Rather , taxes are used to control inflation .
A widely disliked tax policy among many is increasing taxes , which is why Snyder says the bearish case for MMT is “ taxes never go up because they ’ re unpopular and inflation runs rampant.
” But this is a fundamental principle of MMT : When there is too much demand in the economy , taxes must be raised to subdue demand .
MMT begins with the government budget constraint under a system of fiat money .
According ( hereafter MW & W ) , the standard approach , which relates the present value of tax revenue to the present value of government spending and the government debt , is misleading .
They write , “ The most important conclusion reached by MMT is that the issuer of a currency faces no financial constraints .
Put simply , a country that issues its own currency can never run out and can never become insolvent in its own currency .
It can make all payments as they come due.
” ( MW a result , “ for most governments , there is no default risk on government debt.
” ( MW & W , p. 15 ) WHY CAN ’ T YOU JUST PRINT MONEY ?
First , in our current monetary system with interest paid on reserves , any money the government prints to pay a bill will likely end up in the banking system as reserves , and the government ( via the Fed ) will need to pay interest on those reserves .
That is , when the government prints money to in effect , borrowing .
The money can stay as reserves forever , but interest accrues over time .
An MMT proponent will point out that the interest can be paid by printing yet more money .
But the ever-expanding monetary base will have further ramifications .
Aggregate demand will increase due to a wealth effect , eventually spurring inflation .
Second , if sufficient interest is not paid on reserves , the expansion in the monetary base will increase bank lending and the money supply .
Interest rates must then fall to supply , again putting upward pressure on aggregate demand and inflation .
Third , the increase in inflation reduces the real quantity of money demanded .
This fall in real money balances , in turn , reduces the real resources that the government can claim via money creation .
Indeed , there is likely a Laffer curve for seigniorage .
A government that acts as if it has no financial constraints may quickly find itself on the wrong side of this Laffer curve , where the ability to print money has little value circumstances , a government may decide that defaulting on its debts is the best option , despite its ability to create more money .
That is , government default may occur not because it is inevitable but because it is preferable to hyperinflation .
This discussion brings us to the theory of inflation .
I have been adopting the mainstream view , explained most simply by the quantity theory of money , that a high rate of money creation is inflationary .
Proponents of MMT question that conclusion .
They assert that “ in the money supply and rises in the general price level.
” ( MW & W , p. 263 ) This assertion overstates the case against the mainstream view .
In U.S. decade data since 1870 , the correlation between inflation and money growth is 0.79 .
Cross-country data exhibit a similarly strong correlation .
( Mankiw , 2019 , pp .
109-110 ) PEOPLE ARE FALLIBLE AND SUSCEPTIBLE TO CORRUPTION MMT proposes that a country with its own currency , such as the U.S. , doesn ’ t have to worry about always print more money to pay interest .
So the only constraint on spending is inflation , which can break out if the public and private sectors spend too much at the same time .
As long as there are enough workers and equipment to meet growing demand without igniting inflation , the government can spend what it needs to maintain employment and achieve goals such as halting climate change .
In fact , MMT breaks with liberal orthodoxy by saying that while taxes on the wealthy are good for lessening inequality , for government spending .
Another misconception is that MMT says deficits never matter .
On March 13 the University of Chicago Booth School of Business published a survey of prominent economists that misrepresented MMT that way , leaving out its understanding that too-big deficits can cause excessive inflation .
The surveyed professors roundly disagreed with MMT as described .
MMTers cried foul .
Modern Monetary Theory says the world still hasn ’ t come to terms with the death of the gold standard in 1971 , when President Richard Nixon declared that the .
In the modern era of “ fiat ” currency , MMT says , the U.S. and other big economies no longer need to worry about having enough gold to back their paper money , so they ’ re free to print however much they need .
MMT claims to be the legitimate heir to the theories of Britain ’ s John Maynard Keynes , who created the field of macroeconomics during the Great Depression .
Keynes coined the term “ paradox of thrift.
” His insight was that while any single household by cutting spending when its income falls , the economy as a whole can not .
One household ’ s spending is another ’ s income , so if everybody cuts back , no one gets paid .
What you get then is a depression—a situation only government can fix because , unlike the private sector , it can afford to spend freely , putting money in people ’ s pockets and thus getting the economy back on track .
Britain ’ s Wynne Godley developed the concept of sectoral balances , which the government runs a deficit , the nongovernment sector must run a surplus , and vice versa .
MMT rejects the modern consensus that economies should be steered primarily by the raising and lowering of interest rates .
MMTers believe that the natural rate of interest in a world of fiat money is zero and that pegging it higher is a giveaway to the investor class .
They say tweaking interest rates is ineffectual because businesses make investment decisions based on prospects for growth , not the cost of money .
To stabilize funded , locally administered job guarantee .
Government would employ more people in slumps than in booms .
Pavlina Tcherneva of Bard College ’ s Levy Economics Institute is refining the plan .
Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez , the Democratic Socialist from the Bronx who ’ s in her first term in Congress , supports the job guarantee and says MMT should be “ a larger part of our conversation.
” MMT challenges a core principle of conventional economics , which is that an increase in budget deficits will tend to raise interest rates opposite , it says , sounding a bit like the White Queen from Alice in Wonderland .
When the government spends more , the private sector gets the money and puts it in the banking system .
With more money in the system and no increase in demand for it , interest rates will tend to fall , not rise , MMT says .
That is , unless the government chooses to soak up reserves by selling bonds , which it doesn ’ t have to do .
The reason the government doesn , or levy taxes , to spend money is that the central bank , under the control of the treasury , can pay for everything by conjuring up electronic money .
In MMT ’ s ideal world there would still be taxes , but their main purpose , aside from lessening inequality , would be as “ offsets ” to keep inflation under control .
Taxes would drain just enough money from consumers and businesses so total spending in the economy won ’ t be excessive .
MMTers hold that inflation isn ’ growth .
They blame much of it on businesses ’ excessive pricing power .
So before trying to choke off growth to kill inflation , they would try to break up monopolies and stop banks from making too many loans .
“ The more actively we regulate big business for public purpose , the tighter the full employment we can achieve , ” three MMTers wrote in a letter to the Financial Times ’ Alphaville column that was published on March 1 .
MMT ’ s critics argue that trying to use fiscal proven failure because Congress and the president rarely act quickly enough to respond to a downturn .
And they say politicians can ’ t be relied upon to impose pain on the public through higher taxes or lower spending to squelch rising inflation .
MMTers respond that they also oppose fine-tuning and instead want to use automatic stabilizers—including the jobs guarantee—to keep the economy on track .
STEPHANIE KELTON ( MMT , ADVISOR TO SANDERS : Kelton wrote the article “ Congress can give every American a pony ( if it breeds enough The Los Angeles Times.
” Critics of MMT reject its reassurance that a country with its own currency doesn ’ t need to worry about deficits .
After all , it ’ s been proven that a nation that loses the confidence of the world ’ s investors will see its currency plummet .
As recently as 1976 , the U.K. was forced to appeal to the International Monetary Fund to stabilize the value of sterling .
MMT argues that by insisting the government rein in its spending to “ balance its books a lack of investment , an underperforming economy , and all the unemployment and lost opportunities that go along with that .
Instead , MMT says , the government ought to be able to create all the new money it needs as long as that does not generate inflation .
To understand where MMT is coming from , it ’ s useful to start with two recent occasions when chairmen of the US Federal Reserve admitted that the government can print all the money it needs , and nothing bad happens .
Central , which is why the statements are so interesting .
If creating new money out of thin air creates inflation , why was there no inflation when Ben Bernanke created $ 1 trillion in assets to save the banks during the financial crisis ?
( $ 1 trillion is actually the lower end of the bailout estimate .
A paper by the Levy Economic Institute argued the cost was as high as $ 29 trillion . )
Japan runs a deficit of 240 % of GDP , and yet has no inflation In , and the 19 countries in the euro currency area , imposed negative interest rates to flush money out of bank accounts , in hopes of generating inflation .
At the same time , the European Central Bank hosed the continent with €2.5 trillion ( $ 2.5 trillion ) in “ quantitive easing ” ( new money , but with a fancy name ) .
ZIMBABWE : “ Of course if you keep spending and you can ’ t produce goods to meet that spending you ’ ll get inflation , and if you ’ ll get hyperinflation , ” he says .
It is the lack of goods — or labour , or capacity — that triggers inflation , MMT argues .
That ’ s why there was no inflation in the West in the last 10 years .
All that extra money from the Fed and the ECB was put to use , making the recession slightly less awful than it could have been .
There are still people without jobs , and plenty of unused “ capacity , ” in the US and remains the case it is unlikely that inflation will happen .
“ The existence of unemployment is clear de facto evidence that net government spending is too small to move the economy to full employment , ” wrote Phil Armstrong of York College in 2015 .
“ [ The government ] must use its position as a monopoly issuer of the currency to ensure full employment.
” When the private sector fails to provide full employment , MMT advocates support the idea of a “ jobs guarantee ” that provides government-funded jobs to The spending on such a program would be capped when the economy reaches full employment .
“ When do you know that the government has spent enough ?
When the last worker has walked into a job guarantee office to pick up a job , ” says Mitchell .
Forms of federal job guarantees have existed in the past .
In 2002 , Argentina introduced the Jefes Programme , which offered a job to the head of every household and paid a basic wage .
Jefes participants worked on local community projects such and community centers ; baking , sewing clothing , and recycling ; and repairing sewers and sidewalks .
In 1933 , President Franklin Roosevelt began rolling out his “ New Deal , ” which provided a wage to unemployed people to build schools , hospitals , airports , roads , bridges and other infrastructure .
And during World War 2 most Western governments spent heavily on military and armaments to finance the war .
Traditional economists regard this type of thinking as highly inflationary and damaging to free markets .
If the government takes to buy up all the unemployed labour , then the private sector will be starved of workers .
Employees will be pulled out of productive , efficient , market-driven companies into inefficient government jobs .
Wage inflation will spiral as the government ’ s new money pours in and workers demand higher pay in the private sector .
Although the stereotype of MMT is about inflationary spending , the reality is that MMT-ers take inflation very seriously .
At full employment , except for imports , the economy ’ s resources are Wray .
Any further spending will be inflationary .
It ’ s not the money that ’ s the problem .
It ’ s whether the economy has enough people and goods to supply the demand that cash creates .
MMT-ers also propose that tax policy should become an anti-inflationary monetary tool .
If there is too much money in the economy the government should tax some of it , thereby taking it out of circulation .
( When you pay taxes , the money is literally destroyed , Mosler says .
“ debit your account and those funds are gone .
Just like shutting off a light switch .
If you somehow paid with actual cash with old paper bills , they would send them to be shredded .
You can buy shredded dollars online.
” ) MMT-ers argue that the “ household ” metaphor is exactly backwards , because the government has to create the money first in order to spend it , and only after it is in circulation can it be taxed back .
Four reasons the government is obviously not like its own money and set the price at which that money is available to the markets .
It therefore has monopoly power on the fundamental underlying prices of everything in the economy .
Any debts denominated in its own currency can be paid with its own currency , or can be settled by the creation of new money in that currency .
• The government creates money in order to spend it , according to Mosler .
The government does not impose taxes in order to find money , in other words .
” and “ creation ” might as well be the same thing , in the MMT framework .
• Taxes make money valuable .
Money is only valuable when a government has the power to command that taxes be paid in the currency it operates .
If everyone has to pay tax , then everyone needs to earn money .
A government can create all the money it wants , and it can also tax back all the money it wants , keeping prices stable .
The government thus has two levers to can vary taxes and spending , up or down , in concert or independently .
• The government need not balance its books the way a household does .
Governments create and spend money but they do not tax back 100 % of that cash .
That ’ s why , at any given time , a government will be running a deficit .
The deficit is merely the difference between all the cash the government has spent and all the taxes it has collected .
A deficit signifies that the private sector the difference .
So if the government is in deficit the flipside is that the private sector is in surplus .
Similarly , if the government is in surplus it must mean that the private folks are in deficit — using debt or their savings to get by , because total payments to the government are more than the government ’ s spending .
Even if everything MMT proposed were true , and money creation and deficit spending were not inflationary at the national level , runaway inflation might still kick in if to make your nation ’ s currency worthless , your government bankrupt , and your central bank default .
Political bias : If the central bank follows the government ’ s direction , it could face accusations of political bias or corruption , erode people ’ s trust in financial regulators , and struggle to make painful decisions in the short term that benefit the economy in the long term .
Central banks in Venezuela , Zimbabwe , and Argentina all printed money to please politicians in recent years — resulting in hyperinflation : The government might not spot when the economy has reached full capacity , or lack the discipline to stop spending , leading to inflation .
Politically impractical : Relying on taxation to extract money from the economy and cool it down could well be politically infeasible in countries where tax hikes are deeply unpopular , such as the US .
If households are feeling the pinch of higher prices , politicians might be more inclined to cut their taxes than raise them .
Tax policy already has an important role : Tax money from the wealthy to the poor .
Repurposing it to reduce the money supply could mean those effects are overlooked .
Foreign debt : If the government holds a significant amount of debt in another currency , printing money and depreciating its currency could make that debt harder to pay off and even force it to default .
FX markets maybe skeptical : Printing money with reckless abandon could also make investors wary of currency volatility and inflation , leading them to ditch the currency for foreign exchange , gold , and @