On May 26 U.S. President Biden gave U.S. Intelligence agencies 90 days to report findings about the possible Wuhan lab origin of the Covid-19 pandemic .
One component of this investigation , having subpoena power , should focus on the “ U.S./Wuhan GoF controversy ” .
This is the hypothesis that the U.S. National Institutes of Health ( NIH ) funded risky research into coronaviruses at the Wuhan Institute of Virology ( WIV ) , especially during the federal GoF Pause imposed in 2014 under the Obama Administration , and also under the P3CO Framework established by the Trump Administration it should be noted , does not automatically imply culpability if a lab escape is proven .
In recent months , an increasing number of official and media sources have drawn attention to this debate .
On January 15 2021 it was mentioned in a disputed Department of State Fact Sheet ( point 3.3 ) released by the last Administration .
Since then , at least three separate Congressional representatives have addressed the issue in letters to the Department of Health & Human Services ( DHHS ) Principal Deputy Inspector General , the President of the EcoHealth Alliance .
Although there have been some answers to a number of questions , it has not been enough to shut down debate .
The first of three open letters from 26 world scientists , released on March 4 , was titled “ Call for a Full and Unrestricted International Forensic Investigation into the Origins of COVID-19 ” .
These scientists demanded complete transparency with “ full or significant access to all sites , records , samples , and personnel of interest ” [ see § 3.6.2 ] and or international , known to have worked on coronaviruses or shared facilities or equipment with groups that worked on coronaviruses ” ( bold added ) .
One of the signatories of this open letter , biosafety expert , molecular biologist and laboratory director Dr. Richard Ebright of Rutgers University tweeted about President Biden ’ s recent announcement : “ Over the next 90 days , this investigation should examine any and all information on the Wuhan Institute of Virology held by NIH , USAID , DoD , DHS and NSF .
The list , which channeled U.S. funding to the Wuhan lab ” .
“ Many threads of investigation are available in the U.S. and would be accessible to a Congressional inquiry with subpoena power .
/ At EcoHealth .
At funding agencies ( USAID , DTRA , DARPA , DHS , and NIH ) .
At publishers ( Springer – Nature and Lancet ) .
/ No cooperation from China needed ” .
This “ Full and Unrestricted National Forensic Investigation ” should be carried out immediately , to show the world the same transparency Blinken , requires from China ’ s government .
As he said last Sunday in an interview aired on HBO , asked about the possibility that ‘ Beijing ’ is covering up a lab leak in Wuhan : “ We have to get to the bottom of what happened .
There is accountability .
But the most important reason we have to get to the bottom of this is that ’ s the only way we are going to be able to prevent the next pandemic or at least do a better job investigation becomes even more imperative given the directors of the principal agencies implicated in the Wuhan controversy ( the NIH and the NIAID ) have firmly and formally denied any involvement .
In a Senate hearing on May 11 , NIAID Director Fauci declared [ min .
59:49 ] : “ The NIH has not ever and does not now fund gain-of-function research in the Wuhan Institute of Virology ” .
Subsequently the NIH Director declared in a statement on 19 May : “ Neither NIH nor NIAID have ever approved any grant research on coronaviruses that would have increased their transmissibility or lethality for humans ” .
Lawrence Tabak , Principal Deputy Director of the NIH further denied any involvement in his response on 21 May to the aforementioned Congressional letters .
The discrepancy between these official statements , and the opinions of relevant experts and the amount of evidence suggesting the contrary , is disturbing .
In response to the NIH ’ s Director statement from 29 May , Dr. Ebright declared in an interview : “ The statement by the NIH Director is is uninformed , or is misinformed , or is seeking to mislead ( any one of which should be a disqualification for continuation in his position ) .
The NIH Director now even is denying that the 2015 Nature Medicine paper by UNC and WIV reporting construction of a novel chimeric coronavirus with spike gene from a bat SARS-related coronavirus with genomic backbone from SARS-CoV –a paper that for six years has been deemed to epitomize the highest-risk subset of gain of function research– was gain of function research ” .
There is GoF .
Molecular biologist and postdoctoral researcher at the Broad Institute ( MIT-Harvard ) Alina Chan is another signatory of both the Wall Street Journal/LeMonde open letter , and the influential May 14 Science Magazine Open Letter “ Investigate the origins of the Covid-19 ” .
As the biotechnology expert Jamie Metzl notes , “ Alina Chan , whom I greatly respect , makes the definitional argument supporting the Fauci/Collins assertions in this important Twitter thread ” .
A thread contradicted by Dr. Ebright in a May 19 , 2021 section of Metzls ” .
Technicalities aside , perhaps it was the biological weapons expert Milton Leitenberg of the University of Maryland who made the most resounding conclusion when he said to the Financial Times on 28 May ; “ Whatever we classify this work as , it should not have been taking place at the Wuhan Institute of Virology ” .
Further evidence supporting the need for additional scrutiny was reported in The Australian on May 28 by Sharri Markson of Sky News , Australia : “ An investigation by The Weekend Australian has also the Nat­ional Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases [ NIAID ] , did not alert senior White House officials before lifting the ban on gain-of-function research in 2017 ( … ) Multiple Trump administration officials told The Weekend Australian Dr Fauci had not raised the issue of restarting the research funding with senior figures in the White House ( … ) The Weekend Australian has also confirmed that neither Mike Pompeo , the then director of the Central Intelligence Agency , nor National Security Council member Matthew Pottinger , was briefed ” .
‘ official ’ , is also quoted : “ It kind of just got rammed through .
I think there ’ s truth in the narrative that the ( National Security Council ) staff , the President , the White House Chief-of-Staff , those people were in the dark that he was switching back on the research ” .
This generates many questions .
Who are these multiple officials ?
Were the CIA Director , the National Security Council staff , the President and/or the White House Chief-of-staff supposed to be briefed ?
there even a procedure in place ?
Who wrote the 2014 Pause document ?
Who was supposed to provide oversight ?
And if the maneuver was inappropriate , why was it not reversed when the NIH made it public ?
The fact is that in December 2017 the NIH , of which the NIAID is a part , announced it would resume funding gain-of-function research .
This was officially flagged by the NIH Directors Office on December 19 , 2017 ( with the clear headline “ NIH Lifts Funding Pause on Gain-of-Function Research reported by the New York Times on the same day with the striking headline : “ A Federal Ban on Making Lethal Viruses Is Lifted ” .
If none of the abovementioned CIA , National Security Council or White House officials were briefed before the funding pause was lifted , they should have known about it immediately after it came into effect .
Moreover , in a January 21 , 2018 NIAID Advisory Council open meeting , NIAID Director Fauci addressed the resumption of government funding for GoF research ( and the new which he defines as “ research that might be anticipated to create , transfer , or use enhanced potential pandemic pathogens ” ( min .
44 ) .
Did anyone raise concerns , publicly or privately , and can they prove it ?
Did they address their concerns to leadership at the NIH , NIAID or other agencies ?
Did they suggest or try to reverse by any means the NIH decision ?
Shouldn ’ t this expand the range of candidates for accountability ?
Markson ’ s sources nevertheless strengthen some timely aforementioned interview : “ The Director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases ( NIAID ) and the Director of the National Institutes of Health ( NIH ) have systematically thwarted efforts by the White House , the Congress , scientists , and science policy specialists to regulate GoF research of concern and even to require risk-benefit review for projects involving GoF research of concern ” .
“ In 2014 , the Obama White House implemented a ‘ Pause ’ in federal funding for GoF research of concern .
However , a footnote that : ‘ An exception from pause may be obtained if head of funding agency determines research is urgently necessary to protect public health or national security ’ .
Unfortunately , the NIAID Director and the NIH Director exploited this loophole to issue exemptions to projects subject to the Pause –preposterously asserting the exempted research was ‘ urgently necessary to protect public health or national security ’ – thereby nullifying the Pause ” .
“ In 2017 , the Trump Administration announced a Potential Pandemic Pathogens Control and Oversight ( P3CO risk-benefit review of GoF research of concern .
However , the P3CO Framework relies on the funding agency to flag and forward proposals for risk-benefit review .
Unfortunately , the NIAID Director and the NIH Director have declined to flag and forward proposals for risk-benefit review , thereby nullifying the P3CO Framework ” .
These statements by Dr. Ebright seem truly alarming in the wake of the current pandemic and need to be followed up .
Ebright was also cited by the Fox News anchor on Tucker Carlson Tonight .
In an opinionated where there are only hypotheses .
He then requested “ a criminal investigation into Tony Fauci ’ s role in this pandemic ” .
Did the directors of the NIH and NIAID break the law when they systematically thwarted efforts by the White House , Congress and the scientific community to implement the 2014 GoF Pause and the 2017 P3CO Framework ?
Was the recent NIH official statement and was Fauci ’ s NIAID Senate testimony about their role in Gain-of-Function funding , false or intentionally misleading ?
If this were the case U.S. Legal Code has this to say : “ ( a ) Except as otherwise provided in this section , whoever , in any matter within the jurisdiction of the executive , legislative , or judicial branch of the Government of the United States , knowingly and willfully- ( 1 ) falsifies , conceals , or covers up by any trick , scheme , or device a material fact ; ( 2 ) makes any materially false , fictitious , or fraudulent statement or representation ; or ( 3 ) makes or uses same to contain any materially false , fictitious , or fraudulent statement or entry ; ( … ) ” .
It would be an astonishing and shocking situation .
A good way to know if it is true is to have a presidential mandate for a full and unrestricted national investigation , with subpoena powers , into the U.S./Wuhan GoF controversy .
Now .
The 90 days are running out .
Even if the Wuhan lab turns out not to be the source of the SARS-CoV-2 outbreak , or U.S. Gain-of-Function funding played change the urgency of a national investigation .
Are GoF experiments really worth the risk ?
High-risk experiments with potential pandemic pathogens are a Pandora ’ s box , that much we know .
The Cambridge Working Group has long warned that these studies could provoke a pandemic .
Maybe the NIAID Director still thinks that the risk is worth it .
As The Australian also recalls : “ America ’ s top medical adviser for the coronavirus , Anthony Fauci , argued [ in this Sep-Oct 2012 paper ] that the benefits their infectious potency–was worth the risk of a laboratory accident sparking a pandemic ” .
“ In previously unreported remarks , Dr. Fauci supported the contentious gain-of-­function experiments that some now fear might have led to an escape from a Wuhan laboratory causing the Covid-19 pandemic , calling them ‘ important work ’ ” .
Just before the SARS-CoV-2 Wuhan outbreak , the WHO Global Preparedness Monitoring Board ’ s September 2019 annual report of which Anthony Fauci was a member , alerted in at least four different sections that a pandemic due was a plausible scenario ( bold added ) : “ Countries , donors and multilateral institutions must be prepared for the worst .
A rapidly spreading pandemic due to a lethal respiratory pathogen ( whether naturally emergent or accidentally or deliberately released ) poses additional preparedness requirements ” ( p. 8 ) .
“ In addition to a greater risk of pandemics from natural pathogens , scientific developments allow for disease-causing microorganisms to be engineered or recreated in laboratories .
Should countries , terrorist groups , or scientifically advanced individuals create or obtain the characteristics of a novel , high-impact respiratory pathogen , the consequences could be as severe as , or even greater , than those of a natural epidemic , as could an accidental release of epidemic-prone microorganisms ” ( p. 27 ) .
“ Preparedness and response systems and capabilities for disease outbreaks are not sufficient to deal with the enormous impact , rapid spread and shock to health , social and economic systems of a highly lethal pandemic , whether natural , accidental or deliberately released ” ( p. 28 ) .
a lethal respiratory pathogen ( whether naturally emergent or accidentally or deliberately released ) poses additional preparedness requirement ” ( p. 30 ) .
Dr. Fauci knew in advance that a lab origin pandemic was plausible .
Now former Food and Drug Administration chief , Scott Gottlieb , says that “ Fauci briefed world leaders on the possibility the virus came from a Wuhan lab last spring ” .
According to a June 6 Forbes report , Gottlieb said last Sunday : “ I was told at the time back in the spring a meeting with world health leaders in Europe around the World Health Assembly ( … ) At this meeting , Fauci briefed world health leaders on the information U.S. officials were looking at , including ‘ that this could have been a potential lab leak , that this strain looked unusual ’ ” .
Does the NIAID Director still think that the risk is worth it ?
And if the possibility of a lab origin pandemic was so obvious to him , has he been thwarting efforts to investigate a lab origin and to mislead ?
And why have the “ world health leaders ” that he apparently informed not spoken out ?
Yes , science can makes us wiser and safer , but if we want wisdom and safety those are the values that must be rewarded .
This is therefore not just a technical debate .
It raises deep public policy , legal , ethical and cultural questions .
The world has a right to know the truth .
As Louis Brandeis once said , sunlight is the best disinfectant .
Especially under penalty freelance journalist and author based in Spain .
Regular contributor for El Imparcial newspaper and Cadena Cope radio station .
He has three published books , one of them cataloged by the U.S. Library of Congress .
Editor ’ s note .
We welcome comments and information about the subject of this article .
However , please note that the “ reply ” function in the comments section is not working for people without high level access to the website .
There are two possible solutions for readers wanting to reply to specific but name the commenter you are responding to ( if necessary with the date of their comment ) .
Or , 2 ) Mail your comment to the editor : [ email protected ] and they will post it as a reply .
Please be sure to say who/what you are replying too .
If this article was useful to you please consider sharing it with your networks .