On July 5 2019 , Xiangguo Qiu and her husband Keding Cheng were removed by Canadian police from the Canadian National Microbiology Lab ( NML ) in Winnipeg , Manitoba .
Their security clearances were also retracted , allegedly over “ administrative issues.
” Qiu is an expert in Ebola and was in charge of the NML ’ s pathogen and vaccine division .
Cheng is an expert in proteomics .
The NML is Canada ’ s only Biosafety Level 4 ( BSL-4 ) laboratory for the study of pathogens highly hazardous to humans .
Starting in 2017 , Qiu Wuhan Institute of Virology .
Over a five year period she also published papers with the leading members of China ’ s civilian/military virology establishment who may have had access to the Winnipeg lab .
A few months before their suspension , Qiu organized the shipment , which was authorized , of many strains of Ebola and Henipah viruses to the Wuhan Institute of Virology .
In January , 2021 , the couple were finally fired .
Canada ’ s Parliamentary committee on Canada-China relations has been unable to find out why : unredacted documents about that firing , claiming they will cause embarrassment to Canada and compromise national security .
In this section , drawn from her new book , On the Origin of the Deadliest Pandemic in 100 Years , Canadian investigative journalist and prize-winning non-fiction author Elaine Dewar digs into their story and its links to the origin of SARS-CoV-2 .
By the time Qiu started work on Ebola , the mishandling of the SARS epidemic by China ’ s leadership was well-known worldwide .
Officials had been fired for misbehaviour .
China US , like W. Ian Lipkin , and Chinese scholars with significant success abroad , such as George Gao , to help reorganize its public health system , especially its disease surveillance methods .
That year , a group of scientists from Guangdong , the centre of the SARS pandemic , arrived in Winnipeg to tour the Canadian Science Centre for Human and Animal Health , which includes both the NML , now managed by PHAC ( Public Health Agency of Canada ) , and the animal diseases lab managed by the Canadian its agreement with France , which led to the construction of the BSL-4 at the Wuhan Institute of Virology .
Natalie Salat , a reporter for Legion , a magazine about Canada ’ s military history , came to Winnipeg to write about the facility after the visitors from China had come and gone .
Their attendance was presented to her as a mark of the NML ’ s global importance .
Salat was told that the NML had partnerships with the Department of National Defence , the University of Manitoba , the , the US Bioterrorism Response Network , etc .
Stefan Wagener , whom Salat identified as the centre ’ s scientific director for biosafety and environment , told her that everyone who worked at the lab for more than ten days had to have a rigorous security clearance .
He jokingly said that if he told her anything else about the detailed security measures in place , he ’ d “ have to kill her.
” 227 Reading the piece , I found myself wondering : How could Qiu have qualified for even would need secret clearance to work in the BSL-4 by 2005 .
I ’ d read somewhere that to get a secret clearance one must have been a citizen for ten years , have no criminal record , and no other obvious exploitable problems of a criminal nature , like an addiction to drugs or gambling , etc .
Surely Qiu had not been in the country long enough to qualify when she was first hired at the NML , though she and her husband might have been permanent residents by then .
are the requirements for a top-secret security clearance .
It is less onerous to get a secret clearance .
I remembered Stefan Wagener ’ s name from the Wuhan Institute of Virology ’ s website .
He ’ d been listed there as a member of the WIV ’ s Scientific Advisory Committee of the Center for Emerging Infectious Diseases .
I looked him up .
The bio on his company ’ s website said he had worked at the NML from 2001 until 2013 , then been appointed to the Grain Commission ran an international bio-risk consultancy .
Surely he would know Qiu ?
We did a Zoom call rather than a phone call because he likes to see the people he ’ s speaking with .
My video died within the first three minutes , but I got a glimpse of him : an older man sitting at a desk with a headset over his ears , waving at me .
He said he started at the Canadian Science Centre for Human and Animal Health in 2001 as chief administrative officer .
His responsibilities safety and security of the building and its complex systems .
In 1999 , before he was hired , there had been a leak : about 2,000 litres of insufficiently sterilized wastewater was released into Winnipeg sewers .
Nothing was said about this to the public until the CBC published a story about it a month later .
Ebola and Lassa fever had not yet arrived at the lab , so there was no danger , just like there was no danger the next year when there was another wastewater leak .
That Are you still an advisor to the WIV BSL-4 in Wuhan ?
I asked .
He said he was not .
He had visited Wuhan when the BSL-4 lab was in the design stage , but that was some years ago .
He was pretty sure he had .
He remembered her face when he saw the press stories about whether SARS-CoV-2 might have leaked from her lab .
But he hadn ’ t worked with the WIV for quite some time : his advisor role had lapsed a couple of years after Qiu from the NML ?
I asked .
“ I don ’ t remember her , ” he said .
He explained that there were about 400 people working there in his day , and that he had been more concerned with the physical plant ’ s operations .
He certainly didn ’ t know everybody .
“ Did I know Cheng ?
Might have had conversations , ” he said .
But he had no clear recollection of “ these people.
” Yet Wagener ’ s position at the NML was eliminated Cheng apparently started work there .
So why did he remember conversations with him , but nothing about the woman who ’ d been toiling for years in the NML ’ s special pathogens lab ?
“ What can you tell me about the security clearance process at the NML ?
” I asked .
He explained that it was a graded system , requiring different levels of security clearance depending on which labs a person had access to .
Canadian citizenship or landed status had nothing to do with those clearances , at the NML .
The Level 2 labs required lesser clearance than the Level 4s .
People tried to arrange their work so that the bulk of it could be done in the Level 2s .
Genetic material or proteins can be worked with in the BSL-2 because they don ’ t pose a risk to anyone .
How long did it take to get a security clearance ?
“ It could take a long time to get access to data .
It could take six to eight months before a full security , ” he said .
He explained that the point is to bring the best scientists from all over the world to the lab and to do the best work possible , to be constantly training so that if infectious-disease outbreaks occur everybody is ready to deal with them .
He himself was a German citizen when he worked at the NML .
Before that , he ’ d spent 12 years working at the University of Michigan .
So how were people cleared ?
I asked .
There would be background checks RCMP , who would deal with the country of origin , he explained .
You mean the RCMP would ask Chinese police about the status of a Chinese citizen ?
He could see where I was going with that question : If China wanted to slip someone into Canada ’ s only BSL-4 , Chinese officials contacted by the RCMP would of course send a glowing but not necessarily complete report .
I told him about Qiu and Cheng collaborating on papers with members of the Chinese military .
I told him that BSL-4 .
How could that have happened ?
“ I don ’ t have an answer to [ that ] .
” he said .
But he wasn ’ t fussed by it .
He asked if I ’ d have a problem if people in the NML worked with the American military .
The two situations are not comparable , I said .
“ Canada and the US are allies and we protect the North American continent together .
China is not a friend of Canada.
” And I am not alone , 2021 , the director of CSIS , David Vigneault , gave a public talk in which he described China as a “ strategic threat.
” 229 But Wagener saw things differently .
Pathogenic agents can be looked at with two eyes , he said , from the point of view of public health , but also from a safety and security perspective , biowarfare and bioterrorism .
“ Almost any country with a Level 4 will have an interest in these agents in a military perspective .
You prepare your armed forces weapon against troops .
Just by publishing it , it tells you this knowledge is in the public domain.
” What he meant is that , if something is published , it no longer constitutes a threat .
Everybody can read it .
I wasn ’ t so sure about that .
And it raised another question : Had all the experiments done in the NML lab by Qiu and Cheng , along with Chinese military personnel , been published ?
And did the two of them retain their access to data even From what Wagener said of the NML ’ s clearance process , it seemed to me more than possible that the security investigation of Keding Cheng and Xiangguo Qiu had been less than rigorous .
As Wagener had also explained , people working in Level 4 labs organize their work so that they don ’ t have to be inside them any longer than necessary .
The bulk of experimental protocols are conducted safely in labs with lesser containment .
People coming from China to work with Qiu might not have needed security someone in the lab who did have one .
I went back to Google Scholar .
I wanted to find out exactly when Qiu and Cheng began working with co- authors from the Chinese military , the Wuhan Institute of Virology , and with George Gao .
I dug out Qiu ’ s paper on treating Ebola in nonhuman primates with “ zMapp.
” It had been published in Nature online in August 2014 , in final form in October .
She was the lead author , Kobinger the last , Larry Zeitlin , such as Gene Olinger , were affiliated with the NIH , still others with the United States Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases at Frederick , Maryland .
But there was one author , Heiyan Wei , who was affiliated with both the NML and the Institute of Infectious Diseases , Henan Center for Disease Control , China .
This seemed odd given that money for this paper had come from the US Defense Threat Reduction Agency , the US National Institutes of Health , PHAC , and the Canadian Safety for a Chinese state-run institution qualify for a Canadian security clearance ?
And if not , how could Heiyan Wei have been affiliated with the NML ?
I found another paper co-authored by George Gao which appeared to be the first Xiangguo Qiu published with him .
It was called “ Molecular Characterization of the Monoclonal Antibodies Composing zMab : A Protective Cocktail Against Ebola Virus.
” It was submitted to Scientific Reports in September 2014 , just as the Nature piece appeared online .
It was published in November , just after form .
Kobinger was one of the co-authors .
Gao and two others were with the CAS Key Laboratory of Pathogenic Microbiology and Immunology , Institute of Microbiology , Chinese Academy of Sciences , Beijing .
Qiu was the corresponding author.231 The acknowledgements said the NML authors were supported by the Canadian Safety and Security Program , while George F. Gao was supported by two grants from the government of China , the China National Grand S & T Special Project , and the Special Foundation of President for Ebola Virus Research from credited , along with the other colleagues from China , with performing the “ surface plasmon resonance assay and data analysis.
” Gary Kobinger was credited with writing the paper .
That same year , contrary to Amir Attaran ’ s assertion that gain-of-function experiments are permissible in Canada but not done , Qiu and Kobinger did a gain-of-function/ passaging experiment at the NML involving mice and Marburg .
The paper was called “ Establishment and characterization of a lethal mouse model for the Angola strain of Marburg virus.
” Marburg normally does passages in immunodeficient mice it adapted itself sufficiently to give the mice severe disease .
The money for that experiment also came from the Canadian Safety and Security Program , but no one affiliated with a Chinese institution worked on it.232 But when Qiu and Gary Wong did a similar experiment in 2015 that entailed making guinea pigs susceptible to Sudan virus by adapting the virus to them through multiple passages , Heiyan Wei of the Henan Center for Disease Control and Prevention , China , was again a co-author.233 A paper published and Makona strains of Ebola in rhesus macaques .
Gary Wong worked on that paper as first author .
George Gao worked on it too.234 I found three articles focused on the creation of devices for rapid detection of Ebola .
George Gao was a co-author on all three .
The first appeared in the journal Biosensors and Bioelectronics , and the other two in Analytical Chemistry .
The Biosensors paper was published at the end of 2015.235 The first Analytical Chemistry paper appeared in December 2016 , the next in May 2018 papers was Jianjun Chen of the Laboratory of Special Pathogens and Biosafety at the Wuhan Institute of Virology , where Shi Zhengli was deputy director.236 Gary Wong worked on those papers too .
He was no longer affiliated with the NML but with the same institutes in China as George Gao : one in Shenzhen , one in Beijing.237 The only co-author from the NML on the May 2018 paper was Xiangguo Qiu .
But work with Ebola must have been done at the NML .
It could not be done in China the latter had not yet received permission to import Ebola to China .
And what about the Chinese military ?
Members of the military began working with Xiangguo Qiu about a year after George Gao .
I found a paper titled “ An Adenovirus Vaccine Expressing Ebola Virus variant Makona Glycoprotein Is Efficacious in Guinea Pigs and Nonhuman Primates.
” It was published online on October 4 , 2016 , in the Journal of Infectious Diseases.238 The first author , Shipo Wu , was affiliated with the Beijing Institute of Biotechnology , an Chinese military .
Several other co-authors were with the same institute .
The most important among them was Chen Wei .
Her name is given on the paper as Wei Chen , but that ’ s the Western way of naming in which the family name comes last ; in China it ’ s the other way around .
Chen Wei , China ’ s lead expert on Ebola , had made the vaccine used in the study .
She was then and still is a major general in the People ’ s not mentioned in this paper .
Xiangguo Qiu , the last author , was said to be with both the Special Pathogens Program at the NML and with the University of Manitoba .
Gary Wong was listed with both the NML and the CAS Key Laboratory of Pathogenic Microbiology and Immunology , Institute of Microbiology , Chinese Academy of Sciences Special Pathogens Program , which was George Gao ’ s home institution .
Two other co-authors , Xuefeng Yu and Tao Zhu , were with Tianjin-based CanSino Biologics Inc.239 Xuefeng Yu came to mainly at Sanofi , the pharmaceutical company , until 2009 .
He returned to China and set up CanSino to develop vaccines .
It is now listed on the Hong Kong stock exchange .
The cell line used to develop Major General Chen Wei ’ s Ebola vaccine is a variant on an original cell line crafted long ago by Dr. Frank Graham of McMaster University .
The National Research Council ( NRC ) licensed its use to CanSino .
This same cell line was used again by Major General Chen Wei to fight SARS-Cov-2 .
Canada was supposed to have gotten access to that SARS-CoV-2 vaccine for Phase 1 trials , along with the right to manufacture it at an NRC plant being adapted for vaccine production in Montreal .
But in May 2020 , shortly after this deal was announced , it fell apart , a fact not shared with Canadians until August .
Chinese authorities would not permit the vaccine to be sent to Canada at all ( adding vaccine diplomacy to hostage diplomacy in China ’ s bag of pressure tactics ) a special prize for her SARS-CoV-2 efforts ( not for the vaccine , but for a plasma treatment ) in a heavily publicized ceremony hosted by Xi Jinping himself .
If you google her name , you ’ ll find an image of her resplendent in her military uniform with a very large decoration , like a mayor ’ s chain of office , hung over her shoulders .
She is standing beside President Xi.241 There are several laudatory stories about her in the Chinese press , the kind that aim to show combating the virus .
She told state broadcaster CCTV that “ the pandemic is a military affair , and the affected areas are the war zones.
” I also found a lovely picture of her being tossed in the air by her African colleagues during the West African Ebola epidemic of 2014–2016 , as if to celebrate her efforts in helping to stem the outbreak .
Xiangguo Qiu tested Chen ’ s Ebola vaccine at the NML on guinea pigs and nonhuman primates : they were infected with Ebola to get a better .
To do such experiments in China , Major General Chen Wei would have needed access to a BSL-4 lab , but the new BSL-4 at the Wuhan Institute of Virology was not yet finished so Ebola experiments couldn ’ t be done there .
The acknowledgements on the vaccine paper said that Xiangguo Qiu , Lihua Huo , and their colleague Wei Chen— Chen Wei—had conceived and designed the study .
Funding came from the Public Health Agency of Canada , CanSino Biologics , and the Institute of Biotechnology in Beijing .
, when this experiment began , Xiangguo Qiu was already working with George Gao , the Wuhan Institute of Virology , and the Chinese military medical establishment at the highest level .
Either the Public Health Agency of Canada approved these relationships or it just never noticed that China ’ s leading military expert on viruses with pandemic potential was using Canada ’ s only BSL-4 lab for China ’ s purposes .
And where was CSIS ( Canadian Security Intelligence Services ) in all of this ?
Extracted from On the Origin Published by Biblioasis , Canada , 2021 .
If this article was useful to you please consider sharing it with your networks .