In China there is a popular joke about the southern city of Guangzhou ( Canton ) .
A visiting space alien , curious to learn about Chinese customs , tours its various provinces .
Arriving in Guangzhou the alien asks the locals what their interests are .
The Cantonese oblige their guest by putting the alien in a soup pot and eating it .
This joke hinges on the Cantonese fondness for cooking with unusual species , many obtained from far away .
This feature of Canton ’ s cuisine was implicated in the original SARS ( Severe Acquired Respiratory began in Guangzhou .
It is thought that the virus arrived there with palm civets imported for speciality dishes ( Wang et al.
, 2005 ) .
But this culinary connection also marks a defining difference between the first SARS coronavirus pandemic and the current one .
The COVID-19 ( SARS-CoV-2 ) pandemic began in Wuhan , but Wuhan was considered a comparatively unlikely location for a natural ( zoonotic ) coronavirus spillover ( Yu et al.
, 2019 ) .
It has no cultural or geographic or climatic predisposing factors .
For bats are not abundant in Wuhan and Hubei province has few bat coronaviruses compared to hotspots like Yunnan and Guangdong ( Yu et al.
, 2019 ) .
Unlike Canton , Wuhan is not famous for exotic fare .
Nor is Wuhan near animal smuggling and trading origins ( Li et al .
2019 ) .
It was for this reason that researchers from the Wuhan Institute of Virology ( the WIV ) , which is the prime suspect in the various lab leak theories , mostly had to travel thousands of kilometres et al.
, 2019 ) .
Furthermore , when WIV researchers needed to study a Chinese population that was not routinely exposed to bat coronaviruses ( as a control group ) , they chose Wuhan residents ( Wang et al .
2018 ; Li et al .
2019 ) .
It is consequently a mystery , if SARS-CoV-2 does have a zoonotic origin , why COVID-19 should have emerged where it did .
As Zheng-li Shi , head of coronavirus research at the WIV told Scientific American , in March 2020 : “ thing to happen in Wuhan , in central China ” .
What is the probability of a natural zoonotic coronavirus outbreak starting in Wuhan ?
It is possible , and potentially helpful , to put numbers on Zheng-li Shi ’ s surprise .
Numbers can more precisely show the incongruity of an outbreak occurring in Wuhan .
But before using them it is important to specify the assumptions required so that these numbers can be treated with appropriate caution .
Such a calculation requires that we set aside momentarily all the varied , , like those mentioned above , that may make certain locations or populations less or more likely to originate a pandemic .
( For a broader discussion of these factors see e.g .
Graham et al.
, 2013 ) Given these proviso ’ s , and knowing that ( 1 ) bats and other animals which harbour coronaviruses are found practically all over the world , and ( 2 ) that the population of Wuhan is 11 million , and that ( 3 ) the global population is 7 billion , we can epicentre of a natural zoonotic coronavirus pandemic : The chance of a person from Wuhan being patient zero is approximately 630-1 .
Therefore , if we were Zheng-li Shi , we would have “ never expected ” a natural zoonotic outbreak in Wuhan either .
Imagine her surprise , and that of her colleagues when , in December 2019 , they learned of a local coronavirus outbreak .
They ( and other researchers ) travel all over the world , and not just China , looking for coronaviruses yet a pandemic breaks out .
It truly is , very , very , unlikely that a natural zoonotic pandemic would start in Wuhan .
Yet no commentator on the outbreak seems to have properly acknowledged the true scale of this improbability .
The second coincidence is an evolutionary coincidence But there is , in fact , a second coincidence regarding the origin of the COVID19 pandemic .
This coincidence has seemingly been entirely disregarded ; but it too points strongly to a lab origin .
The underlying logic is quite simple and it has to do with ’ s laboratory at the WIV is a world centre of coronavirus research .
This has been mentioned often and is widely known .
In particular , the Wuhan Institute of Virology is a world-leading site for bat coronavirus collection ( and the virus came from a bat ) .
But what has not been foregrounded is that , even within the coronaviruses , Zheng-li Shi ’ s laboratory had , of the 28 relevant coronavirus species , singled out just one of them as their special focus .
And it is a “ SARS-related coronaviruses “ ) that broke out in Wuhan in 2019 .
This , then , is a further curious coincidence : for a pandemic coronavirus ( SARS-CoV-2 ) to emerge in Wuhan and be a member of the species most studied at the Wuhan Institute of Virology .
A fuller appreciation of this coincidence requires visualising coronavirus evolution and understanding the research agenda at the WIV .
The coronaviruses are divided into four types : Alpha- , Beta- , Gamma- and Delta- coronaviruses .
These are shown in Fig .
1 tree adapted from a paper by Li et al.
, 2020 .
( The print is small and so here is a link to the original figure . )
Of this phylogenetic tree , only the Alpha ( pink ) and Beta ( green ) coronaviruses will be considered here .
This is because the Gamma ( yellow ) and Delta ( blue ) coronaviruses are few , not known to infect humans , and therefore questionably relevant .
As of February 2020 , when Li et al .
created this figure , Betacoronaviruses .
( Note : a species does not precisely equate to single tips on the phylogenetic tree in Fig 1. because some species have multiple members . )
It is important to appreciate , however , that we have no reason to suppose that a pandemic coronavirus could not have emerged from any branch of this phylogenetic tree .
Indeed , the last coronavirus to jump into humans ( before 2019 ) was MERS ( Middle East Respiratory Syndrome ) in 2012 .
MERS is a Betacoronavirus and was an unknown species the green arrow in Figure 2 .
The original SARS virus was also unknown as a species at the time it emerged as a human pathogen in 2002 .
This unpredictability is also apparent from Zheng-li Shi ’ s choice of ‘ disease X ’ .
In 2018 the WHO announced a discussion list of pandemic priority diseases , which included Ebola , Rift Valley Fever , and other viruses .
Alongside these known diseases the WHO asked experts to nominate a presently unknown candidate .
Zheng-li Shi proposed that : “ Disease caused by a novel coronavirus originated from bats ” ( Jiang and Shi 2020 ) .
In other words , she did not predict any more narrowly than that the next pandemic would be caused by an Alpha- or Betacoronavirus .
The apparently random nature of coronavirus spillovers to humans is also apparent from inspection of Figure 3 .
Figure 3 shows all of the six human coronaviruses identified prior to this pandemic .
They are ( from the top of the figure ) : HCoV-NL63 , HCoV-229E , MERS , SARS , each indicated in Figure 3 by green arrows , except for SARS , which is represented by a black arrow .
What Figure 3 illustrates is that human coronaviruses are distributed widely across the coronavirus family tree .
That is to say , previous spillovers to humans happened at diverse and seemingly random points on the coronavirus tree and have involved both Alpha- and Betacoronaviruses .
With these prior assumptions stated we can then ask the question : where on the tree would one have expected ( prior to the COVID-19 pandemic ) The answer is , if it were a natural or semi-natural spillover ( i.e .
a zoonosis ) ––from a random spot on the tree .
It might have been an Alphacoronavirus or a Betacoronavirus .
It might even , like MERS and SARS , be a novel species , since presumably there are still many undiscovered coronavirus species .
The crucial point is that the chance of a spillover coming from each species is , as far as anyone knows , seemingly equal .
So where , phylogenetically speaking , did SARS-CoV-2 Figure 4 ( below ) in which the red arrow indicates the site of emergence of SARS-CoV-2 .
It emerged from the same species as the original SARS , hence its name .
As noted above , this particular species is known to taxonomists as the “ SARS-related coronaviruses ” after its then most famous member ( Coronavirus Study Group of the International Committee on Taxonomy of Viruses , 2020 ) .
As discussed , from a zoonotic perspective , nothing appears to be special about these SARS-related coronaviruses .
Consequently , the the same coronavirus species constitutes a second surprising coincidence .
We can again calculate its probability .
If each Alpha and Betacoronavirus species is equally likely to spill over to humans , which is consistent with our understanding , then the probability of a virus from the SARS-related coronavirus species starting a zoonotic pandemic is 1 in 28 .
( And if there are undiscovered coronavirus species––pretty much a certainty––the number will be greater still ) .
It is a coincidence that , just like the emergence in Wuhan , heavily favours a the specifics of the coronavirus research programme at the WIV , which are outlined below .
Consider the following list of publication titles , many accepted in prestigious journals , from between 2005 and the start of the pandemic in late 2019 .
They are all authored by Zheng-li Shi .
These eighteen research papers constitute the main focus of her published output .
What they have in common is that all use the phrase “ SARS-like coronavirus ” or , later , “ SARS-related coronavirus ” or a close variant ( all should be understood as technical terms .
They denote viruses extremely closely related to SARS and only distantly related to other coronaviruses : • ‘ Full-length genome sequences of two SARS-like coronaviruses in horseshoe bats and genetic variation analysis ’ ( 2006 ) ; • ‘ Evidence of the recombinant origin of a bat severe acute respiratory syndrome ( SARS ) -like coronavirus and its implications on the direct ancestor of SARS coronavirus ’ ( 2008 ) ; • ‘ Difference in Receptor Usage between Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome ( SARS ) Coronavirus ( 2008 ) ; • ‘ Virus-like particles of SARS-like coronavirus formed by membrane proteins from different origins demonstrate stimulating activity in human dendritic cells ’ ( 2008 ) ; • ‘ Immunogenicity difference between the SARS coronavirus and the bat SARS-like coronavirus spike ( S ) proteins ’ ( 2009 ) ; • ‘ Intraspecies diversity of SARS-like coronaviruses in Rhinolophus sinicus and its implications for the origin of SARS coronaviruses in humans ’ ( 2010 ) ; • ‘ Immunogenicity of the spike glycoprotein of Bat SARS-like coronavirus ‘ ( 2010 determinants of the spike protein of SARS-like coronavirus ‘ ( 2013 ) ; • Isolation and characterization of a bat SARS-like coronavirus that uses the ACE2 receptor ( 2013 ) ; • ‘ Bat severe acute respiratory syndrome-like coronavirus WIV1 encodes an extra accessory protein , ORFX , involved in modulation of the host immune response ’ ( 2016 ) ; • Longitudinal surveillance of SARS-like coronaviruses in bats by quantitative real-time PCR ’ ( 2016 ) ; • ‘ Discovery of a rich gene pool of bat SARS-related coronaviruses provides new insights ( 2017 ) ; What this list demonstrates is that , while Zheng-li Shi at the WIV focused on virus collection , above all , she dedicated her research to understanding zoonotic spillovers to humans of one species alone : the SARS-related coronaviruses .
So while most discussions of a potential lab escape have mentioned that SARS-CoV-2 emerged within commuting distance of the WIV and that researchers at the WIV worked on bat coronaviruses , none have mentioned that the coincidence is much greater than that .
Zheng-li Shi concentrated , especially with on the particular species of coronavirus that is responsible for the pandemic .
There is a simple reason for this focus .
The original SARS outbreak in 2002-04 had a major impact in China .
Finding the origin , explaining SARS and its symptoms , and preventing a repeat all became major research priorities for Chinese scientists .
To be sure , Zheng-li Shi published papers on other coronavirus species over that same time-period , for example on MERS , and even some on non-coronaviruses ; but these articles tended to be one-offs large majority of her output and the dominant theme of her research was collecting and manipulating SARS-related coronaviruses to determine the potential for human spillover .
So , if one accepts as reasonable the assumptions made above , the probability of Wuhan being the site of a natural SARS-related coronavirus outbreak is obtained by multiplying 1 in 630 by 1 in 28 .
The chance of Wuhan hosting a SARS-related coronavirus outbreak is thus 17,640–1 .
The criticism will doubtless be made that the geographic and the phylogenetic evidence described here are circumstantial–mere is based on a common logical misconception–that circumstantial evidence represents a special category of evidence .
As the philosopher David Hume first argued , all evidence of causation is composed of coincidences .
All an observer can do is to add up the coincidences until they surmise that the threshold of reasonable doubt has been surpassed .
Conclusions are always provisional , but in the absence of evidence to the contrary , anyone open to persuasion ought at this point to conclude that a probability of 17,640–1 far exceeds that threshold .
A the default hypothesis .
Such a conclusion is only reinforced by much of the important information that has emerged since the outbreak began .
We now know , for example , that , at the time of the outbreak , Zheng-li Shi and her colleagues had in their freezers the virus sample known as RaTG13 .
Among all the known coronaviruses , including within the SARS-related coronaviruses , RaTG13 is by far the closest relative of SARS-CoV-2 .
We also know that Zheng-li Shi implied she had not actively studied RaTG13 prior to , 2020 ) .
We now know this was false and they had been studying it since at least 2017 ( Zhou et al .
2020 addendum ) .
These facts again do not support a natural zoonotic origin .
If there were a credible zoonotic origin theory for the emergence of SARS-CoV-2 then such a calculation might be considered moot .
But , despite considerable academic discussion ( e.g .
Leitner and Kumar , 2020 ; Seyran et al .
2020 ; Sallard et al.
, 2020 ) and a WHO investigation theory to speak of .
Snakes , Bamboo rats , pangolins , mink , turtles , dogs , civets , whales , and frozen cod , have all , at various times , been suggested as intermediate vectors that might have carried SARS-CoV-2 , or coronavirus precursors of it , to Wuhan ; but neither a theory , nor a proximal spillover virus , nor a plausible intermediate host has gained significant support in the scientific community .
The excellent reason is that data supporting them are largely lacking despite the apparently very 2020 ) .
The most concrete of these zoonotic theories , and by far the most widely known , is the pangolin ( Manis javanica ) theory ( Anderson et al.
, 2020 ; Lam et al.
, 2020 ; Xiao et al.
, 2020 ) .
It is proposed that pangolins smuggled from countries to the south of China harboured precursor coronaviruses picked up from bats , thereby bringing them to Wuhan .
However , newly available evidence has made this scenario improbable .
First , pangolins do not seem , after Lee et al.
, 2020 ) .
Second , the pangolin theory rests largely on virus sequences obtained from pangolins confiscated in Guangdong province in early 2019 .
Attempted independent verification of these virus sequences has uncovered that , although four publications ( now highly cited ) discuss or report pangolin coronavirus sequences and therefore appear to support the widespread presence of coronaviruses in pangolins , only one virus genome was ever sequenced ( Chan and Zhan , 2020 ) .
The papers by Xiao et al .
( 2020 ) and Liu renamed and reconfigured sequence information generated by Liu et al .
2019 .
This is the same pangolin coronavirus data set discussed by Lam et al.
, 2020 .
Current thinking , in light of this new evidence , is that the smuggled pangolins were an ‘ incidental host ’ of the coronavirus .
That is , the pangolins likely caught the virus while being smuggled ( Chan and Zhan , 2020 ; Lee et al , 2020 ) .
In stark contrast , there are four distinct lab origin theories and these .
Two are published in the scientific literature ( Sirotkin and Sirotkin , 2020 ; Segreto and Deigin , 2020 ) .
A third proposes that SARS-CoV-2 was a failed attempt to develop a vaccine .
This theory was developed by an independent group of online researchers called DRASTIC .
The fourth is our own Mojiang Miners Passage theory .
This latter theory starts from the fact that viruses in the same mine where RaTG13 ( the closest related viral sequence to SARS-CoV-2 ) was sampled appear to have given rise to a outbreak , six miners were hospitalized with COVID-19-like symptoms and three died ( Rahalkar and Bahulikar , 2020 ) .
All had been shovelling bat guano and were diagnosed at the time as likely suffering from an unknown coronavirus .
Samples from four of the hospitalized miners were sent to the WIV for testing .
To-date , there are conflicting claims about the results of those tests and nothing has been formally published ( Zhou et al .
2020 addendum ) .
The Mojiang Miners Passage theory proposes , however , that , WIV , these patient-derived samples contained a highly adapted human virus , which subsequently escaped .
For the present moment , notwithstanding the claim of the WHO investigation and the censorship of Facebook , all of these accidental lab origin theories appear plausible to us , but all remain uninvestigated .
Our prediction , however , simply based on assessing the probabilities , is that no convincing natural zoonotic origin for the pandemic will ever be found by China or the WHO or anyone else––for the simple reason that one does not exist , A. , Lipkin , W. I. , Holmes , E. C. , & Garry , R. F. ( 2020 ) .
The proximal origin of SARS-CoV-2 .
Nature medicine , 26 ( 4 ) , 450-452 .
Chan , Y .
A. , & Zhan , S. H. ( 2020 ) .
Single source of pangolin CoVs with a near identical Spike RBD to SARS-CoV-2 .
BioRxiv .
S. G. of the International Committee on Taxonomy of Viruses ( 2020 ) .
The species Severe acute respiratory syndrome-related coronavirus : classifying 2019-nCoV , 5 ( 4 ) , 536 .
Graham , R. L. , Donaldson , E. F. , & Baric , R. S. ( 2013 ) .
A decade after SARS : strategies for controlling emerging coronaviruses .
Nature Reviews Microbiology , 11 ( 12 ) , 836-848 .
Jiang , S. , & Shi , Z. L. ( 2020 ) .
The first disease X is caused by a highly transmissible acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus .
Virologica Sinica , 35 ( 3 ) , 263-265 .
Lam , T. T. Y. , W. , Shum , M. H. H. , Jiang , J. F. , Zhu , H. C. , … & Cao , W. C. ( 2020 ) .
Identifying SARS-CoV-2-related coronaviruses in Malayan pangolins .
Nature , 583 ( 7815 ) , 282-285 .
Lee , J. , Hughes , T. , Lee , M. H. , Field , H. , Rovie-Ryan , J. J. , Sitam , F. T. , … & Daszak , P. ( 2020 ) .
No evidence of coronaviruses or other potentially zoonotic viruses in Sunda pangolins ( via Malaysia .
Ecohealth , 17 ( 3 ) , 406-418 .
Leitner , T. , & Kumar , S. ( 2020 ) .
Where did SARS-CoV-2 come from ?
.
Molecular biology and evolution , 37 ( 9 ) , 2463-2464 .
Li , H. , Mendelsohn , E. , Zong , C. , Zhang , W. , Hagan , E. , Wang , N. , … & Daszak , P. ( 2019 ) .
Human-animal interactions and bat coronavirus spillover potential among rural residents in Southern China .
Biosafety and Health .
Li , B. , Si , H. R. , Zhu , Y. , Yang , X. L. , Anderson , D. E. , Shi , Z. L. , … & Zhou , P. ( 2020 ) .
Discovery of bat coronaviruses through surveillance and probe capture-based next-generation sequencing .
Msphere , 5 ( 1 ) .
Liu , P. , Chen , W. , & Chen , J. P. ( 2019 ) .
Viral metagenomics revealed Sendai virus and coronavirus infection of Malayan pangolins ( Manis javanica ) .
Viruses , 11 , P. , Jiang , J .
Z. , Wan , X. F. , Hua , Y. , Li , L. , Zhou , J. , … & Chen , J .
( 2020 ) .
Are pangolins the intermediate host of the 2019 novel coronavirus ( SARS-CoV-2 ) ?
.
PLoS Pathogens , 16 ( 5 ) , e1008421 .
Rahalkar , M. C. , & Bahulikar , R. A .
( 2020 ) .
Lethal pneumonia cases in Mojiang miners ( 2012 ) and the mineshaft could provide important clues to public health , 8 , 638 .
Sallard , E. , Halloy , J. , Casane , D. , Decroly , E. , & van Helden , J .
( 2021 ) .
Tracing the origins of SARS-COV-2 in coronavirus phylogenies : a review .
Environmental Chemistry Letters , 1-17 .
Seyran , M. , Pizzol , D. , Adadi , P. , El‐Aziz , T. M. A. , Hassan , S. S. , Soares , A. , … & Brufsky , A. M. ( 2020 ) .
Questions concerning the proximal origin .
Segreto , R. , & Deigin , Y .
( 2020 ) .
The genetic structure of SARS‐CoV‐2 does not rule out a laboratory origin : SARS‐COV‐2 chimeric structure and furin cleavage site might be the result of genetic manipulation .
BioEssays , 2000240 .
Sirotkin , K. , & Sirotkin , D. ( 2020 ) .
Might SARS‐CoV‐2 have arisen via serial passage through an animal host or cell culture ?
A potential explanation for much of the novel coronavirus ’ distinctive genome .
BioEssays , 42 ( 10 ) , , M. , Xu , H. , Liang , W. , Kan , B. , Zheng , B. , … & Xu , J .
( 2005 ) .
SARS-CoV infection in a restaurant from palm civet .
Emerging infectious diseases , 11 ( 12 ) , 1860 .
Wang , N. , Li , S. Y. , Yang , X. L. , Huang , H. M. , Zhang , Y. J. , Guo , H. , … & Shi , Z. L. ( 2018 ) .
Serological evidence of bat SARS-related coronavirus Sinica , 33 ( 1 ) , 104-107 .
Xiao , K. , Zhai , J. , Feng , Y. , Zhou , N. , Zhang , X. , Zou , J. J. , … & Shen , Y .
( 2020 ) .
Isolation of SARS-CoV-2-related coronavirus from Malayan pangolins .
Nature , 583 ( 7815 ) , 286-289 .
Yu , P. , Hu , B. , Shi , Z. L. , & Cui , J .
( 2019 ) .
Geographical structure of bat SARS-related coronaviruses .
Infection , Genetics Zhou , P. , Yang , X. L. , Wang , X. G. , Hu , B. , Zhang , L. , Zhang , W. , … & Shi , Z. L. ( 2020 ) .
A pneumonia outbreak associated with a new coronavirus of probable bat origin .
nature , 579 ( 7798 ) , 270-273 .
If this article was useful to you please consider sharing it with your networks .