While right-wing groups are mobilizing angry mobs to yell at school board members that parents have the right to control what their children are taught , evangelical pollster George Barna told religious-right activists at the Family Research Council ’ s “ Pray Vote Stand ” summit Thursday that it is their duty to try to indoctrinate other people ’ s children into a “ biblical worldview.
” Barna , one of the first senior fellows at FRC ’ s recently established Center for Biblical Worldview , specializes in studying what he calls “ SAGE Cons ” —Spiritually Active Governance Engaged about FRC and Barna ’ s “ worldview ” project is how few people—and how few conservative evangelicals—measure up to their right-wing “ biblical worldview ” standard .
When the Center for Biblical Worldview launched in May , FRC President Tony Perkins said that a biblical worldview “ is only achieved when a person believes that the Bible is true , authoritative , and then taught how it is applicable to every area of life , which enables them to live out those beliefs.
” Barna told “ Pray Vote Stand ” attendees measure up to that standard of a biblical worldview—and only one out of five people who attend an evangelical church .
“ Biblically , it ’ s parents ’ responsibility to shape their children ’ s worldview—both directly and indirectly , ” Barna declared .
But , he said , only 7 percent of parents with children under the age of 18 have a biblical worldview .
That ’ s a problem that people with a biblical worldview must fix , he said : That doesn ’ t portend well for the future you don ’ t have .
And so , the rest of us who do get it have to come alongside these children in some way .
We ’ ve got to look for opportunities—sports teams , other kinds of activities that are taking place to help them shape things .
You can ’ t wait for your church to get the job done .
This is a battle for the mind , the heart , and the soul of America , and so it ’ s up to you .
It ’ know God , love God , love Christ , read his word , study his word , embrace , embody his word—and to take that into the world in every way , shape , and form that we can .
Ultimately , we will win or lose this battle long term by what we do with children today .
And so when you leave this conference , I ’ m asking you to think about making a list identifying the children whose lives you can impact .
It is our biblical responsibility to , and serve God the all their heart , mind , strength , and soul , and I pray that you will do that with all the energy and wisdom that you can muster .
Barna ’ s PowerPoint slide hammered home his message that parents without a biblical worldview have “ neither the vision nor the equipping ” to “ raise spiritual champions.
” That means , it said , “ True Christians must seize the moment … Go , make disciples !
” In 2017 , Barna spoke at the Values has been rebranded as Pray Vote Stand—and told participants that the 2016 election was a “ Christians vs. non-Christians ” election and that Trump became president because “ God did a miracle for us .
”