Right Wing Watch reported earlier this month that Liberty Counsel Mat Staver was using his new TV show to promote anti-vaccine conspiracy theories .
Staver is still at it .
“ They ’ ve been planning this for years , ” says the subject line of an email he sent Monday .
Long before COVID , a plan was hatched to steal your freedom .
COVID was the springboard to get people to give up freedom for “ safety.
” Now dark forces are pushing the greatest crackdown on freedom yet — it comes straight from Communist China under the to restrict travel and entry to businesses and events based on the government ’ s directives .
Will America bow to Big Tech and an app that will track where you buy groceries , dine , shop , work , attend school , attend a political rally or even go to church ?
A few states are now pushing back , but we need more pushback !
Staver ’ s email described Bill Gates and other “ globalists ” as having planned for years to “ take advantage of the fear created by regime of “ constant surveillance and social control.
” Staver went on to say that “ fake news outlets ” have been “ hiding the fact that Australian scientists … found a treatment for COVID , ” adding , “ These scientists proved that Ivermectin killed 99.8 % of COVID within 48 hours in a lab setting.
” Ivermectin , a malaria rug that is also used to deworm animals , is “ like the new hydroxychloroquine , ” a Georgetown University virologist told the Washington Post last week—meaning that there are a “ no meaningful evidence ” that it is effective in treating COVID-19 .
Ivermectin is very inexpensive .
But if there was a cure with existing medicines and no widespread fear , there would be no acceptance of mass surveillance .
This cover-up may be one of the greatest crimes of our generation .
Yet these same elites STILL continue to push for mass surveillance today !
They have launched a national , even international , campaign to push for vaccine passports to track you .
Will you submit to their designs or that brings us to the money ask : Liberty Counsel has apparently figured out , like other right-wing groups and politicians , that peddling anti-vaccine messages can be a lucrative source of cash .
Staver ’ s email repeatedly asked supporters to pay for Liberty Counsel to fax messages to members of Congress and governors—ranging from $ 5 for a fax to congressional leaders to $ 75 for faxes to congressional leaders , governors , members of the Senate Judiciary Committee , and all House and Senate Republicans .
The messages oppose mandatory passports.
” Staver praised right-wing Govs .
Ron DeSantis of Florida and Greg Abbott of Texas for acting to “ ban vaccine passports ” —in other words , prevent businesses from requiring customers to provide proof of vaccination to do things like get on a cruise ship .
Staver followed up with yet another email Tuesday , charging that President Joe Biden wants to “ federalize mass surveillance and vaccination of citizens via their cell phones , ” which he described as “ effectively turning America into the People ’ s Republic of phone app that he said allows the Chinese government to switch a person ’ s “ code ” to red , which prevents them from entering public buildings , stores , or restaurants , essentially consigning them to home arrest .
“ And Biden wants to bring this liberty-killing travesty here !
” Staver claimed .
Tuesday ’ s email included the same pay-to-fax offers as the previous day ’ s note .
This isn ’ t Staver ’ s or Liberty Counsel ’ s first foray into vaccination conspiracy theories .
Back figures like the Family Research Council ’ s Jerry Boykin claimed that the Affordable Care Act would allow former President Barack Obama to create a “ private medical military ” of brownshirts .
When asked about that theory at a religious-right event , Staver turned to another Liberty Counsel lawyer , who told activists that this alleged medical military could deploy troops to communities and force people to take vaccines and be implanted with microchips .