Radical right-wing activist Scott Lively used last Sunday ’ s episode of his weekly “ Prophecy & Politics ” livestream program to warn that if “ genuine patriots ” don ’ t gain control over the country in the 2022 midterm elections , it will likely result in the eruption of “ some kind of violent insurrection ” and “ armed rebellion.
” In the event that Republicans don ’ t win in 2022 , Lively told his viewers to prepare to “ disconnect from the grid ” and “ go underground ” in order to escape the radical tyranny supposedly impose on the country .
“ Hopefully , we can take back the country in 2022 , ” Lively said .
“ If we don ’ t , if we don ’ t get it back by 2022 , I don ’ t think it ’ s going to happen , short of some kind of violent insurrection , which is still possible .
People are eventually going to stop putting up with tyrannical authority , and when the only remedy and the only avenue of resistance becomes armed rebellion , then that way .
And if they have any success at all , a lot of other people will follow them.
” “ Do what it takes … to bring the country back into the hands of genuine patriots in this next election cycle , because if we don ’ t take it back in ’ 22 , it ’ s not takeable back , ” he added .
“ Because if they can cheat us in ’ 22 , then it ’ s sort of a lost cause from that point .
Just bomb shelter , gather your survival supplies , get your children out of the public school , move to a place that the government doesn ’ t know they exist , raise them without letting the government know who they are or where they are , and go underground with your church and your social network , your social structure .
Disconnect from the grid if we don ’ t take the country back in [ 2022 ] .
Right now , they have an incentive to be less radical—Biden and all the be less radical because they know everything hinges on 2022 .
But once that ’ s over , once we have thrown everything that we can [ at them ] , if they are able to break that and beat that , that ’ s it .
That ’ s the last bastion right there .
”