MAGA pastor Jackson Lahmeyer launched a primary challenge to Republican Sen. James Lankford of Oklahoma earlier this year because he was outraged by Lankford ’ s failure to challenge the certification of Joe Biden ’ s election victory on Jan. 6 immediately following the right-wing insurrection at the U.S. Capitol .
Lahmeyer has made attacking the legitimacy of the 2020 presidential election a centerpiece of his campaign , repeatedly vowing that if he is elected to Congress , he will make it his mission to hold those who supposedly stole the election from former President Donald Trump accountable for treason support from right-wing QAnon conspiracy theorists like Lin Wood and Michael Flynn , both of whom have endorsed his campaign .
Lahmeyer has also been a regular participant at the “ Restore America ” rallies organized by right-wing conspiracy theorist Clay Clark , where he has been proudly posting photos of himself hanging out with the various election , COVID-19 , and QAnon conspiracy theorist speakers at such events .
Interestingly , Lahmeyer ’ s flirtations with QAnon have not prevented him from becoming the target of smears from QAnon conspiracy theorists who child sex trafficking after he posted a photo of his young daughter wearing red shoes .
As QAnon conspiracy theorist Liz Crokin once explained , many QAnon believers are convinced that “ there is symbolism for red shoes in the occult and it ’ s also tied to satanic ritualistic abuse and the trafficking of children.
” Ironically , while Lahmeyer had no problem affiliating his campaign with QAnon conspiracy theorists , he ’ s now complaining about being a target of those same conspiracy theorists on his Facebook page .
Last week out on the campaign trail with me and she was so proud of her red shoes because it matched the colors of the # LahmeyerForSenate gear .
It was a harmless post but there is an individual out there who has been spreading things about me that are not true such as I am creation worshipper , a new world order globalist and more nonsensical stuff .
This person has also been spreading the narrative that I ’ m in involved in Child Sex Trafficking .
I guess red shoes represent pedophilia according ve been in ministry for years .
Never any accusations whatsoever .
Now all of a sudden I ’ m being accused of everything under the sun by one particular woman and some people don ’ t have enough discernment to determine right from wrong .
Unfortunately , I have to say it because people are asking me .
I ’ m in no way involved in Child Sex Trafficking , pedophilia or devil worship .
If you believe that it actually says more about you than it does me .
The dogs LahmeyerForSenate train 🚂 is going to move forward with full steam ahead 🇺🇸