Last week , Dave Hayes , a self-declared prophet , Christian author , and leading online QAnon activist who is better known as the “ Praying Medic , ” prophesied that the military would remove President Joe Biden from office .
Hayes did not explain precisely why the military would make such a move , saying only that God would compel the military to do so .
On Friday , Hayes posted a follow-up video in which he provided more details regarding his prediction , saying that the military would be forced to remove Biden from office in order to that Biden won the election from launching a full-scale insurrection .
“ I think that the Defense Department and Homeland Security and FBI , I think they know that there are militias around the country who are talking about overthrowing the government , ” Hayes said .
“ There are people who are not going to get past this election .
They ’ re not going to accept it , and they ’ re not going to get past it .
And I believe that the intelligence agencies know these people are out So if you ’ re the military , you can either allow that to happen and then wage some kind of a war against them , or you can preempt that and prevent it from happening .
And I think the military is going to prevent it from happening .
I think the military is going to step in in the Biden administration and they ’ re going to start arresting corrupt politicians because they don ’ t want that other scenario to happen .
They ’ re going to prevent it from prevent insurrection , essentially.
” Hayes went on to claim that the military knows that “ the Biden administration is a charade ” and that “ Barack Obama is behind Joe Biden pulling on the strings , ” and that if something is not done , the military will be completely eliminated once the United States is under control of the “ globalists.
” “ This is the third Obama administration that we ’ re currently living under , and I don ’ t think the military is going to allow that to If Obama and Biden are allowed to run their plan , the military isn ’ t going to be around in eight years .
They ’ ll be gone , and we ’ ll be in one large globalist community with no borders .
That ’ s the game plan .
The military knows it .
They ’ re not gon na let it happen .
They ’ re the only thing that stands between us and one big happy globalist community where we ’ re all under the power of George Soros is not gon na let it happen .
The revolutionary spirit is alive and well in America .
”