Self-proclaimed “ prophet ” Hank Kunneman was a prominent voice among the group of right-wing Christian pastors and activists who claimed to have heard from God that President Donald Trump would win the 2020 election and serve a second term in office .
Kunneman appeared on The Victory Channel ’ s “ Flashpoint ” program Tuesday night , just hours before Joe Biden was set to be inaugurated as president , where he declared that he would not repent for having repeatedly prophesied that Trump would remain president , likening himself to Noah from the Bible , who he said ark until the floods came .
“ God has remembered his covenant with America , and he ’ s going to remember his covenant with America , and there is going to come an intervention of God regarding the fraudulent election , ” Kunneman declared .
“ So no , I ’ m not conceding.
” “ God has not spoken to me to repent , to concede , ” he continued .
“ And I ’ m asking that people afford me and others—other prophets , other believers , other pastors , God ’ s voice regarding it .
And some of the demands for repentance that have happened , I think we ’ re gon na find have been a little bit premature because we ’ re basing everything on an inauguration date .
Now , Inauguration Day may in fact be important , and it ’ s been consistent throughout history , but this has been unlike anything that we ’ ve seen .
We ’ re talking about foreign interference that can be proven , that I believe will be proven .
fraudulent election , so it makes the whole inauguration thing not be consistent.
” “ I feel like we ’ re putting so much emphasis on an inauguration date , that the election has still some things that must be looked into , that will be looked into , ” Kunneman said .
“ And you can ’ t tell me [ that ] over hundreds or thousands of prophetic voices , intercessors , believers , all missed it .
In other words , I believe God is saying we need to wait David .
Is there not a cause ?
And here ’ s what I would say , ‘ Come back and talk to me in four years.
’ You say , ‘ That ’ s ridiculous .
Four years ?
You said President Trump would be reelected.
’ He was , but come back and talk to me in four years .
In other words , they thought Noah was a fool .
Noah prophesied something that had never been done in the history of the Earth .
He said it would rain was against him .
You talk about a guy who the whole world was against , it was Noah .
They scoffed at him , they rejected him , they mocked him .
But in the end , they had prophetic blindness until God moved , and that ’ s what ’ s going to happen .
”