Right-wing pastor and self-proclaimed “ prophet ” Hank Kunneman kicked off his sermon Sunday by railing against the 2020 election , insisting that “ anybody with a brain ” knows that the election was stolen from former President Donald Trump .
Kunneman insisted that if Trump is not reinstated to the White House , it ’ ll prove that “ the evil agenda that Hell has ” can not be stopped and Christians could eventually see their churches shut down , their children take away , their wives raped , and everyone shipped off to concentration camps .
Kunneman has the supposed “ prophets ” who guaranteed that Trump would win the election and has petulantly refused to apologize for his false prophesy , instead promising that God will reward those who stand with him and attacking those who have dared to criticize him .
That trend continued Sunday , when Kunneman attacked Right Wing Watch as “ idiots ” for steadfastly chronicling his myriad false statements and prophecies .
“ President Trump , it ’ s clearly evident that he won the election , ” Kunneman declared .
“ Anybody with a the election he was winning by a clear indication that that ’ s where the election was going .
Why in Hell—it ’ s not a cuss word , I ’ m talking about a location and an agenda—why would you stop everything and have a guy who was supposed to be—he ’ s our pretendant , number 46— [ he ] gets up and starts announcing that he won when the numbers at that time didn ’ t reflect it ?
” “ They did it because they got nervous because all , they stopped the election , ” he continued .
“ Who does that ?
OK , get a brain ?
Do you really think that there ’ s not an agenda ?
Get a brain ?
Why did they try so many times to impeach this guy ?
Because the devil doesn ’ t want this man to represent us.
” “ The bottom line is we need the rightful president in position of power , ” Kunneman continued .
“ It has to be settled because here ’ s what the to ignore the 2020 election , and they want you to ignore the fact that President Trump really did win by a landslide , and it ’ s proven , and it ’ s going to continue to be proven .
… Do we just ignore it ?
That ’ s what they want you to do .
This evil agenda that Hell has , they want you to ignore it.
” “ He has to be reinstated , ” Kunnman proclaimed .
“ Why ?
Because he legally won , he righteously , then it ’ s saying that they can get by with anything .
What next ?
They ’ re already trying to force a vaccination that they don ’ t even know if it works .
What next ?
Shut your churches down ?
Take your kids out of your home ?
Rape your wife ?
Put you in a concentration camp ?
Who knows ?
”