Right-wing anti-vaccine activist Sherri Tenpenny was among the gaggle of conspiracy theorists who graced the stage at the ReAwaken America rally held last weekend at right-wing pastor John Hagee ’ s Cornerstone Church in San Antonio , Texas .
The ReAwaken America event was organized and hosted by conspiracy theorist Clay Clark , who has been bringing various election , COVID-19 , and QAnon conspiracy theorists together in churches around the country throughout 2021 .
At the San Antonio event , Tenpenny shared the stage with Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton and a cavalcade of right-wing conspiracy theorists , ranging Roger Stone and even Alex Jones .
Addressing the crowd on Sunday , Tenpenny declared that requiring non-vaccinated individuals to undergo regular COVID-19 testing is “ torture ” and that giving vaccines to children is modern-day “ child sacrifice ” and an effort to carry out “ very , very , very , very late-term abortion.
” “ People have got to start saying to their bosses who are requiring them to get tested if they don ’ t get a shot , you need to start saying to them , ‘ Torture America , and you repeatedly testing me for being non-compliant and disobedient is torture , ' ” Tenpenny said .
“ I think that we ’ re going to be writing that up , and we ’ re going to sending it into the [ Equal Employment Opportunity Commission ] , and we ’ re going to start accusing you and these policies of being torture.
” “ We know that this is murder by injection , ” she added .
“ You ’ re supposed to give this as sacrificing your children sacrifice being resurged in these final days from the Babylonian mystery schools , from the Tower of Babel and the descendants of Nimrod .
And this is what is happening .
And if you see anybody participating in this , you need to be challenging them about what they are doing to their spirituality and what they are sacrificing their children to.
” “ We ’ ve sacrificed over 60 million unborn babies in abortion , ” she continued .
“ We have multiple states in this country who actually allow late-term abortion very , very , very late-term abortion by killing 5-year-olds.
” “ This is happening in America , people , and it ’ s your job to stop everybody you know and wake them up and shove it in their face , ” Tenpenny urged .
“ If they defund you off of social media , who cares ?
Now , it ’ s about trying to save unborn babies and pregnant women .
They now are actually starting a trial to give these shots to 6-month-olds .
This is child sacrifice .
@