Michael Sisco , an antisemite and self-described monarchist , is not letting a Donald Trump endorsement of his Republican competition stop him from running for Congress in West Virginia ’ s 2nd District , vowing on Nov. 15 to continue his campaign and to “ speak out against the anti-White agenda , and demographic change.
” On Nov. 15 , the former president officially endorsed Republican Rep. Alex Mooney over both Rep. David McKinley and Sisco .
Through redistricting , the state lost one of its congressional seats , thus forcing both congressmen into the same district where they will .
McKinely had rankled Trump by daring to vote for the infrastructure package and the investment it would bring West Virginia as well as voting for a commission to investigate the Jan. 6 attack on the U.S. Capitol .
Mooney has promised to be a loyal supporter of Trump ’ s agenda .
But to Sisco , Mooney is no better than McKinley .
He called both of his opponents “ weak cowards , ” suggesting that Trump endorsed the wrong candidate .
Taking to Gab , a preferred platform of right-wing extremists Stop the Steal campaign , called for the dissolution of the FBI , and vowed to fight against an alleged “ anti-White agenda ” and “ rabid LGBTQ agenda.
” He wrote : Today President Donald Trump endorsed one of my opponents , Rep. Alex Mooney .
I respect what President Trump did in 2016 , giving a voice to disenfranchised white working class Americans .
I attended two Stop The Steal Rallies in Washington D.C. prior to January 6th , my opponents were nowhere to be seen .
I will not quit won ’ t , is because the electorate here in West Virginia has been abandoned by everyone in Washington D.C. Now , political prisoners from that day have been abandoned by the GOP and MAGA .
I will fight for them .
I ’ ll push to dissolve the FBI , and all politically weaponized agencies .
I will speak out against the anti-White agenda , and demographic change .
I will also fight against the rabid LGBTQ agenda and anything else that seeks to weaken and dismantle the traditional family structure .
are afraid to speak to these issues .
Writing for Right Wing Watch , Jared Holt reported last year that Sisco “ once proposed implementing royal rule as a means of driving Jews out of positions of power in the United States.
” At the time , he was employed by the U.S. Senate campaign of far-right commentator Lauren Witzke for his “ campaign manager services ” —a job that Sisco now gloats about on his campaign ’ s website .
Sisco made headlines in 2019 for inviting white nationalist Nick Fuentes to his then-boss , U.S. congressional candidate Bobby Schilling , spoke .
Sisco was subsequently fired from that job , but he has continued to support Fuentes and rub shoulders with other far-right figures such as podcaster Ethan Ralph .
Sisco announced his campaign on Nov. 8 in a press release that took aim at people who immigrate legally through H1B and J1A visa programs , claiming they create “ more profit for the Globalist elites.
” He claimed his opponents have done “ nothing to curtail mass demographic replacement from legal immigration.
” 10-year moratorium on all immigration into the United States—a policy agenda long championed by hate groups like VDARE .
“ We must also build a culture worth assimilating to , and bring in people based on their ability to assimilate , not ‘ skills ’ with which they can replace current American Citizens at a lower cost , ” his website reads .
“ Our birth rate nationwide is at a 100 year low .
Americans are not having enough children to replace the native-born population , ” Sisco wrote in his press will push legislation to incentivize marriage and family.
” These pronouncements echo the white supremacist great replacement theory that posits that an influx of non-white immigrants or people of color will replace the white population and take political power .
As Kathleen Belew told NPR , “ many incarnations of this theory involve a supposed cabal of Jewish elites.
” In some of those incarnations , it ’ s believed that Jewish people are encouraging mass immigration from majority non-white countries as part of their grand scheme to dilute the “ white race.
with Florida state Rep. Anthony Sabatini ’ s declaration that the Immigration and Naturalization Act of 1965—which abolished a quota system that favored immigration from Northern European countries— “ is the worst and most destructive Bill ever passed by Congress .
Echoing Republican attacks on “ critical race theory ” in his Nov. 8 press release , Sisco took it a step further , calling the academic framework that looks at how racism is embedded in U.S. institutions and history , “ anti-White.
” “ I will go further than merely eliminating Anti-White and government institutions .
I will push to pass laws to outlaw diversity quotas , that create an unfair playing field for qualified white people in the Universities and workplace , ” the press release reads .
On Nov. 19 , shortly after the acquittal of Kyle Rittenhouse , who shot and killed two people at an anti-racism protest in Kenosha , Wisconsin , Sisco celebrated , tweeting a meme of Rittenhouse holding a glass of champagne surrounded by “ groypers ” —an illustration of Pepe the Frog used by white nationalists and men were convicted last Wednesday with the murder of Ahmaud Arbery , Sisco shared a tweet suggesting they were only convicted because they were from the South and their victim was Black .
After Rep. Lauren Boebert apologized to Rep. Ilhan Omar last week for suggesting she was a terrorist in anti-Muslim remarks , Sisco called her “ weak.
” An October poll released by GOPAC , a Republican organization dedicated to electing “ the next generation of Republican leaders , ” didn ’ t include Sisco .
Instead , the poll ’ percent to 29 percent .
Another 18 percent of respondents reported being undecided .
Whether Sisco makes a mark in the race or not , he may well turn his campaign into a springboard for bigger far-right commentating experiences , following in the footsteps of his former boss , Lauren Witzke , who after getting fired from the antisemetic TruNews network is now a commentator for “ The Stew Peters Show .
”