At a Tuesday Senate hearing on the security failures that permitted the Jan. 6 breach of the U.S. Capitol building by a mob of angry insurrectionists , Sen. Ron Johnson , R-Wis. , read at length from a column by J. Michael Waller , senior analyst for strategy at Frank Gaffney ‘ s Center for Security Policy .
In his personal essay , Waller recounts his experience of being part of the crowd outside the building as the invasion of violent partisans took place , looking to stop the certification of electoral votes received from the states–votes that added up Trump .
Waller contends that aside from the handful of “ disciplined men ” in camouflage who initiated the breach , the Trump crowd was cheerful and festive until Capitol Police shot a tear-gas canister into the growing crowd on the ground at the building ’ s west side .
“ All of a sudden , pro-police people felt that the police were attacking them , and they didn ’ t know why .
Instead of running away , the people stood their ground , ” he wrote .
Following his stint in made his living as a professional Islamophobe .
In March , Right Wing Watch ’ s Peter Montgomery reported from the National Religious Broadcasters convention of how Gaffney shook up the event by declaring another panelist at the gathering to be “ a Shariah apologist.
” For a time , Gaffney was deemed too extreme for the Conservative Political Action Conference to admit to its stage , but in the Trump years was welcomed back into the fold .
In 2019 , Gaffney teamed up with former White House strategist Steve Bannon to Present Danger : China ; more recently he spoke at a Dec. 12 event that was part of the so-called Stop the Steal campaign , whose participants and instigators falsely allege that Trump actually won the 2020 presidential election and that President Joe Biden is in the White House through cheating .
Bannon was deeply involved in promoting the rallies that culminated in the chaos and destruction that followed Trump ’ s final rally speech as president .
At the hearing , Sen. Johnson used Waller ’ s essay to assert that “ crowd into a weapon of destruction .
Waller also reported witnessing “ fake Trump protesters ” among the crowd , who he identified by the fact that they were not giddy with excitement and had brand-new MAGA hats that some wore backwards .
Johnson read the bit about the alleged incitement of the crowd by Capitol Police , as well as what he called “ plain-clothes militants ” at the front of the mob .
He kept focusing on that bit , reading some more from Waller ’ s piece : Concluding his The last five pages is titled , ‘ Provocateurs turn unsuspecting marchers into an invading mob , ' ” apparently not realizing that the hard copy from which he was reading was a print-out of a web page .
He asked that the entire essay be read into the record .
Johnson then shifted his attention to Steven Sund , the erstwhile Capitol Police chief who resigned after the insurrection , but came before the Senate panel to testify about the events of Jan. 6 .
Johnson suggested that perhaps the reason the they experienced at the Capitol that day was that they knew “ the vast majority of Trump supporters are pro-law enforcement , and the last thing they would do is violate the law.
” Sund wasn ’ t buying it .
“ I will say that story–you know , information I ’ ve received from some of my officers where they were trying to prevent people from coming into the building and people were showing up saying , ‘ Hey , we ’ re police , let us through , ’ and still inside the building , ” he said .
Johnson cut him off to say that he had a long list of questions that he would set down in a letter .