Herschel Walker , a legendary former NFL running back and Heisman trophy winner , is considering a potential 2022 run for United States Senate in Georgia .
A Georgia native and ardent Republican who served as an honorary co-chair of former U.S .
Senator Kelly Loeffler ’ s campaign , Walker was reportedly encouraged to run for the seat himself by former President Donald Trump , his longtime friend going back to the 1980s .
During a recent radio interview , Trump , who posted an official statement several months ago gauging interest in a Walker campaign , referred to ” and a “ loyal friend.
” “ Wouldn ’ t it be great if the legendary Herschel Walker ran for the United States Senate in Georgia ?
” Trump wrote in a statement in March .
“ He would be unstoppable , just like he was when he played for the Georgia Bulldogs , and in the NFL .
He is also a GREAT person .
Run , Herschel , Run !
” While Walker is still in the early stages of building his campaign , the football hero ’ s pivot his turbulent past , which includes repeatedly threatening his ex-wife ’ s life , according to the Associated Press .
Walker , who was diagnosed with dissociative identity disorder , wrote a book in 2008 detailing his long struggle with mental illness .
He wrote candidly about sitting at his kitchen table in 1991 , pointing a gun loaded with a single bullet and playing Russian roulette .
Walker ’ s ex-wife told ABC News that at one point during their marriage , her husband pointed a pistol at her head and said blow your f ’ ing brains out.
” She filed for divorce in 2001 .
Beyond his violent history , Walker also joined the board of directors of a foundation operated by pro-Trump-attorney-turned-QAnon-celebrity Lin Wood , underscoring the NFL legend ’ s affiliation with the far-right conspiracy movement .
Wood , who first gained notoriety when he represented Richard Jewell , a security guard falsely accused of planting the bomb in Centennial Olympic Park during the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta , Georgia , has since reinvented himself as a Trump advocate .
Wood filed lawsuits seeking to undo the 2020 presidential election results in several swing states , which made him a celebrity in the far-right QAnon conspiracy movement .
Prior to becoming a QAnon mainstay , Wood founded the # FightBack foundation with a stated mission to “ protect and defend the constitutional rights , livelihoods and property of people and businesses that are being targeted and destroyed.
” Wood ’ s foundation gained notoriety as part of the legal defense team for Kyle Rittenhouse , the teenager charged with the fatal shooting of in Kenosha , Wisconsin .
The foundation also set up a fund to cover the legal fees , eventually amassing more the $ 2 million in donations .
Wood , however , eventually shifted his attention away from the case in favor of trying to undo the presidential election results in Georgia .
Rittenhouse ’ s mother later claimed that Wood wanted Rittenhouse to stay in jail to maximize the fundraising potential .
It is worth noting that Wood and several other pro-Trump lawyers are facing potential discipline for a lawsuit they filed widespread voter fraud in the most recent U.S. presidential election .
Despite the controversy surrounding Wood , Walker continues to maintain a relationship with the lawyer .
“ Herschel is aware of the many false attacks on me and my mental health by the State Bar of Georgia , the media , and others who do not stand for truth , ” Wood wrote on Telegram in February 2021 .
“ Herschel told me that he would stand proudly side by side with me to fight the false accusations against me and work to defend our Constitution.
” Walker ’ s campaign has also raised concerns from fellow Republicans , many of whom are unsure of the pro-footballer ’ s stance on key conservative issues or how he will handle discussing his well-publicized mental health struggles .
As Republicans aim to win back the Senate majority they lost in January when the Democrats won the two Senate runoff elections in Georgia , some may worry that Walker could prove to be a detriment to their cause .