Right Wing Watch reported Monday that right-wing election lawyer Cleta Mitchell was heading up a new “ election integrity ” project announced by FreedomWorks via an “ exclusive ” to Newsmax that was picked up by other right-wing outlets like the Epoch Times .
Then on Tuesday , the Washington Examiner reported , “ The influential Conservative Partnership Institute today laid out plans to tackle decades of election irregularities and the Democrat ’ s new national election proposal , H.R .
1 , naming noted attorney Cleta Mitchell to lead its Election Integrity Coalition.
” It is not clear whether project or simply organizational jockeying for credit and media attention for a coalition effort .
Mitchell was part of former President Donald Trump ’ s post-election legal team , and she took part in the call in which Trump threatened and bullied Georgia Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger .
According to the Examiner , the Conservative Partnership Institute , or CPI , referred to Mitchell , with her history of high-ranking positions in multiple right-wing organizations , as the “ consigiliere to the vast right-wing conspiracy.
” The Examiner reported that Mitchell “ for conservatives and coordinate challenges to schemes to liberalize elections.
” Mitchell told the Examiner she had just organized a call with 20 organizations working on H.R .
1 , a voting-rights and campaign finance bill opposed by right-wing groups .
“ My role with CPI is to help bring all these strings together and to keep the multiple tracks that we need to deal with .
And my role with them is to try to help support the efforts of others , figure out what ’ s missing , what people are ” she told the Examiner .
CPI is chaired by former senator and former Heritage Foundation president Jim DeMint .
Also part of its leadership team is former Trump White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows , who has the title of senior partner , and Ed Corrigan , a former Heritage Foundation vice president and Capitol Hill veteran .
Mitchell has been given the title “ senior legal fellow.
” Mitchell ’ s bio on CPI ’ s website says she “ leads CPI ’ s Election Integrity Coalition , working with the nation to advance election integrity reforms in Washington and the state level.
” While Mitchell has apparently been hired to coordinate right-wing opposition to H.R .
1 , CPI ’ s website claims , “ CPI does not take positions on legislation or engage in lobbying or partisan campaign activities.
” The website includes links to a slew of Conservative Action Project memos urging opposition to many Biden administration executive branch nominations and opposing H.R .
1 as “ the ultimate fantasy of the left.
” The Conservative Action Project organized right-wing for Republican state legislators to override voters and appoint pro-Trump electors and another urging senators to be willing to contest state-certified Electoral College votes .
Last Friday , Mitchell appeared on religious-right radio host Sandy Rios ’ show and podcast .
Mitchell said the Trump campaign had ignored her warnings to prepare for post-election legal battles and that the Republican National Committee ’ s claim to have thousands of lawyers deployed in battleground states were not true .
Mitchell said Meadows called her the day after the election and asked her to go Trump campaign lawyers in Georgia were “ pretty useless ” and that she had organized volunteer attorneys to document “ irregularities ” that formed the basis of a lawsuit filed in Georgia .
Mitchell told Rios she had “ nothing kind to say about Brad Raffensperger.
” Mitchell complained that the Georgia Republican establishment wanted to let the presidential election go and focus on the Senate runoff campaigns .
Mitchell said she warned them that if Trump supporters “ do not see you walking barefoot across broken glass for this president , they and vote again .
”