When MAGA pastor Shane Vaughn preached a guest sermon at University Parkway Church in Aiken , South Carolina , last month , he made an odd statement that “ every signer of our Declaration of Independence—every one of them—were descendants of the tribes of Israel , ” which he claimed meant that “ America was a church before she was a nation.
” We had no idea what Vaughn meant by that at the time , but during a recent appearance on the “ Club 36 ” Christian television program , Vaughn provided more details , none of which bolster way as his entire argument is riddled with biblical and historical mistakes .
Vaughn kicked things off by claiming that George Washington dedicated the United States to God at St. Paul ’ s Chapel in New York City following his first inauguration .
“ That picture of him praying by the horse , that ’ s where it happened , ” Vaughn declared , seemingly in reference to the famous painting portraying Washington kneeling in prayer beside a white horse .
The only problem for Vaughn , aside from the fact that the , is that it portrays Washington at Valley Forge in Pennsylvania during the Revolutionary War , not in New York City during his inauguration .
Things only went downhill from there .
Every signer of the Declaration of Independence were descendants of the tribes of Israel .
We can trace it .
We know it .
And here ’ s the thing you got to understand about Israel .
Most people think when you say the word Israel , they think of Jews .
… The first mention of the word ‘ Jew against Israel .
When you come to understand that Israel is not Jews and Jews is not Israel , when you get that , here ’ s what happens : At one time , they were one nation .
King Solomon died—King Jeroboam , King Rehoboam , there was a split .
The Jews—the tribe of Judah—stayed in Jerusalem .
They kept the Sabbath .
That ’ s why they ’ re still identifiable .
They get the Sabbath , that kept them identifiable for these thousands of years .
However , there north with King Rehoboam in rebellion .
Those tribes crossed over the Caucasian mountains .
They were captivated by the Germans .
… Where they wound up at was the great British Isles because the prophecy was that they would go to the isles of the sea .
And from there , we find those tribes making their way to the United States of America .
First of all , following the death of Solomon at the end of the 1 Kings , it was his son Rehoboam who was anointed as king reforms to some of Solomon ’ s policies , Rehoboam rejected the request and vowed to impose even harsher policies .
This development gave rise to a rebellion led by Jeroboam in which 10 tribes—Zebulun , Issachar , Asher , Naphtali , Dan , Manasseh , Ephraim , Reuben , Simeon , and Gad—broke off and formed the Kingdom of Israel while the tribes of Benjamin and Judah remained loyal to Rehoboam in the Kingdom of Judah .
The 10 tribes that formed the Kingdom of Israel under Jeroboam , not Rehoboam as the Ten Lost Tribes , meaning that , as the name suggests , they have been lost to history and nobody knows what happened to them .
As such , it seems like it would be a little difficult to trace the ancestry of all 56 signers of the Declaration of Independence back to tribes in Israel that disappeared thousands of years ago .