Thousands of right-wing activists gathered at Influence Church in Anaheim , California , over the weekend to hear a cavalcade of election , COVID-19 , and QAnon conspiracy theorists speak at the latest installment of Clay Clark ’ s “ ReAwaken America ” tour .
Among the speakers this time around was “ apostle ” Leon Benjamin , a Virginia-based pastor who unsuccessfully ran for Congress in 2020 .
Introduced as “ a former spiritual adviser for the Trump administration , ” Benjamin used his time on stage to declare that the church should “ rule and reign ” over Seven Mountains Domonionism is grounded in the belief that right-wing Christians are to “ do whatever is necessary ” to take control of each of the seven main “ mountains ” that shape our culture—education , government , media , business , arts and entertainment , family , and religion—in order to implement the will of God throughout the nation and the world .
“ The church was meant to rule and reign in the Earth , ” Benjamin declared while proclaiming that the church needs modern “ apostles , ” such as “ What happens when the church is not apostolically uniformed ?
We don ’ t have the true mission of what Jesus said in Matthew 28:19 , which was , ‘ Go ye out into all the world ’ —go ye into government , go into education , go into economy , go into sports and entertainment , go into media , go into a religion— ’ and teach all nations and baptize them.
’ That means we should be baptizing presidents !
” “ This is why President Donald Trump gave his ” Benjamin continued , “ because when I first met him , he was like , ‘ You people have a lot of power.
’ But have you heard him lately ?
He prays in the name of Jesus.
” “ Our job in these tours is to light a fire back up under the church again , to get you out of the pew , get you out of the chair , and get you back into the world , ” Benjamin added .
“ We are the next president of the in 2020 , and they did steal my election .
That ’ s why I ’ m running again in 2022 , but I ’ m taking the power.
” As for Benjamin ’ s claim that his election was stolen , that is a little hard to believe given that he lost by a margin of 100,000 votes , raking in only 38 percent of the vote while his opponent , Democrat Rep. Donald McEachin , won 62 percent .