If you ’ ve been wondering how President Donald Trump ’ s devoted followers will shape the Republican Party in the future , one answer can be found in Michigan conspiracy-theorist power couple Matt and Meshawn Maddock : he is a state representative who fought to disenfranchise Michigan ’ s voters to assist Trump in overturning the election , and she is an incoming co-chair of the state party who organized busloads of people to travel to rallies in D.C. meant to stop congressional affirmation of Joe Biden ’ s Electoral College victory .
The day after the assault on that the Maddocks , who had “ been at the center of the campaign to overturn Michigan ’ s presidential election , ” were “ poised to see their political influence among state Republicans grow in the coming weeks.
” Meshawn , who was on the national advisory board of Women for Trump , was recently described by Bridge Michigan as “ an unapologetic firebrand who has described political compromise as weakness ” and one of “ many once-fringe activists who have worked their way into the upper echelons of the Michigan Republican WXYZ noted that “ her rise in the state politics coincides with Donald Trump ’ s , ” adding , “ So too does her taste for conspiracy theories , falsehoods about Michigan ’ s election and expert use of social media.
” “ I feel like it ’ s time for conservatives to start using the same tactics that the left has used for a long time , and I don ’ t want to be passive about it anymore , ” Meshawn told Bridge last year .
“ I ’ m politics .
The world is divided right now , and I ’ m OK with it , because the truth is , I feel like I ’ m on the right side.
” On New Year ’ s Day , Meshawn tweeted , “ Good morning January 1st , 1776 , ” promoting a Revolutionary War theme used by Trump supporters seeking to overturn the presidential election results .
On Jan. 5 , the day before congressional counting of Electoral College votes was interrupted by a deadly insurrection , the Maddocks appeared at that mingled Christian nationalism , Trumpism , COVID-19 denialism , and threats of violence—including the “ 1776 ” theme .
At the rally , which Meshawn called “ the party before the party , ” she declared Trump to be “ the greatest president this nation will ever know.
” She told the crowd that 19 buses were heading from Michigan to Washington for Trump ’ s rally the following day .
She asked what the people flooding into Washington at Trump ’ s call had in common , and her answer was off our eyes , do we not ?
Somehow , we are able to see what other people can ’ t see .
It ’ s our job to show that to them.
” “ And no matter what happens today and tomorrow , I know that God reigns , ” she said .
“ We trust the Lord .
But you know what ?
We never stop fighting.
” Her parting advice to the crowd : “ Do not believe the fake news.
” Matt Maddock didn ’ t say much at about a letter that some Republican lawmakers were sending to Vice President Mike Pence that day , telling him “ not to certify the Michigan electors ” —which would have effectively disenfranchised the state ’ s voters .
“ You know , we don ’ t know if this is going to work , but you know what ?
This entire process has been taking one step at a time and doing the right thing after the right thing after the right thing—and there aren ’ t a lot of people out there ” ( In reality , the demand that Pence assert power he did not have under law or the Constitution was not “ the right thing , ” as Pence himself recognized in refusing Trump ’ s demand that he unilaterally reject the certified electors from battleground states won by President-elect Joe Biden . )
Matt has been an energetic promoter of conspiracy theories about a “ stolen ” election .
He was one of a dozen Michigan Republican lawmakers who asked the U.S. Supreme Court to require legislative certification of the already-certified seriousness of COVID-19 and tried but failed to start impeachment proceedings against Gov .
Gretchen Whitmer over her handling of the pandemic .
The Detroit news noted that on Jan. 6 , before violence broke out , Meshawn praised the crowd on social media and shared a video in which someone could be heard in the background yelling , “ We need to march on the Capitol when we ’ re done here and drag these people out of power.
” Following the insurrection , Meshawn put out a statement criticizing the violence those who stormed the Capitol were wrong and hurt the president and his legacy.
” On Jan. 9 , a Michigan labor activist noted that on Parler , a social media site favored by right-wing activists , Meshawn had echoed a message quoting Mike Flynn saying , “ Trump will remain president.
” “ It ’ s all apologies and prepared statements on Twitter , but over on Parler , incoming Michigan GOP chair Meshawn Maddock is still busily spreading conspiratorial nonsense about Trump remaining president , ” tweeted Joshua Pugh , communications Trump ’ s supporters have acted for years like politics is a game to them and like their actions don ’ t have consequences , so it ’ s appropriate that now after losing power at all levels , they are doubling down on Trump , ” Pugh told Right Wing Watch .
“ Unfortunately , those consequences for the rest of us include a plot to kidnap and murder the governor of Michigan , and a US Capitol Police officer dying at the hands of a mob.
” The Maddocks ’ activities .
The Detroit Free Press reported last week that they had “ joined a Facebook group where members have discussed the possibility of a civil war , decried a ban on open carry inside the state Capitol and hope for a ‘ big cleanup ’ of elected leaders.
” “ The Democratic Legislative Campaign Committee has called for Matt ’ s resignation , claiming he bears responsibility for the assault on the Capitol , ” the Free Press reported .
“ Meanwhile , Meshawn has faced pressure to withdraw as a candidate to co-chair.
” Matt Maddock responded to Democrats ’ call for him to face censure or expulsion by saying , “ I ’ m glad the House does not disenfranchise voters and remove their representatives for merely attending a political prayer rally.
” Some Republicans have “ called for Ron Weiser , who ’ s running unopposed for chair of the state party with Meshawn as his co-chair , to replace her on the ticket.
” Meanwhile , The Hill noted that the state GOP is trying to replace Aaron Van Langevelde , a who defied right-wing demands and voted to certify Biden ’ s victory .
Matt and Meshawn Maddock at Jan. 5 , 2021 Stop the Steal Rally from Right Wing Watch on Vimeo .