Americans woke up last Wednesday morning to a new reality : Roe v. Wade , the 1973 landmark legislation granting a woman a right to an abortion , was violently under attack through the passage of a new “ heartbeat bill ” in Texas .
That law—which bans abortion as early as six weeks into pregnancy , makes no exception for rape or incest , and allows private citizens to sue anyone who performs or aids a woman in getting an abortion—is the first so-called heartbeat bill to have become law and actually be enforced .
The Supreme Court did ’ s enforcement as some had hoped : That evening , the top court allowed the law to stand in a 5-4 decision , with the five right-wing lawmakers firmly in camp against Roe simply claiming it was a procedural issue that abortion providers had not addressed , voting in effect for Texan women to lose the right to abortion provided under Roe .
For Janet Porter , the Texas law was a dream come true .
The longtime religious-right activist took to Rumble , a posterboard of her book , “ A the background as she announced the news .
“ That makes Texas the first state in the nation to actually enforce their heartbeat law of the 14 states who have passed them , ” she told the camera .
“ Grasp this for a moment , ” she said , ecstatic , a smile spread across her face , her hands gesturing in excitement .
“ There is a place in the United States where nearly every child facing abortion is now legally protected .
It is historic.
” “ Today in Texas the baby is protected , ” she said .
“ Soon , the nation will follow.
” Porter is often seen as the mastermind behind so-called heartbeat legislation , which bans women from having abortions after a “ heartbeat ” is detected—as early as six weeks in some cases and , for many women , before they ’ re aware that they are pregnant .
Medical experts say the term “ fetal heartbeat ” is scientifically inaccurate , noting that at six weeks , the embryo—which is not yet a fetus—will have not term “ fetal heartbeat ” pulls at heartstrings , and its marketability , for a lack of better term , has Porter to thank .
While Porter has made restricting access abortion her main priority , the longtime religious-right activist ’ s extremism has been well documented on these pages .
As Barack Obama ran for president in 2008 , Porter took to her radio program to spread the racist birther conspiracy theory championed by Donald Trump .
Once Obama was elected , the conspiracies didn ’ t stop : As Right Wing Obama would orchestrate food shortages to starve conservatives to death , use a swine flu outbreak as an excuse to lock them up in concentration camps , and use Obamacare to deny them healthcare and eliminate them.
” On the pages of World Net Daily , a far-right conspiracy website , she frequently penned columns—her last , published Dec. 11 , 2020 , refused to accept Trump ’ s loss in the 2020 election .
When she wasn ’ t spreading noxious conspiracy theories , the activist was attempting to beat back the would be labeled criminals , rounded up , and tossed in jail if gay people had rights .
She also trumpeted “ conversion therapy , ” a range of dangerous and discredited practices meant to change one ’ s sexual orientation , and was labeled the “ The Architect of the ‘ Conversion Therapy ’ Campagin ” by the New York Times .
The activist , purportedly so concerned about the lives of children , even served as a spokeswoman for Roy Moore , the former Alabama chief justice who unsuccessfully ran for accused of child molestation and attacking the woman who accused him .
At the heart of Porter ’ s activism is an effort to spread a fundamentalist version of Christianity .
In 2010 , her views became so extreme that VCY , the Christian radio station broadcasting her show , canceled it , citing “ the drift of the program toward ‘ dominion ’ theology ” —that is , the idea that Christians are called to take complete control over every aspect of human life in order to bring about the return of life : abortion and women ’ s bodies .
And so in 2011 , Porter , working as the head of anti-choice group Faith2Action , found an Ohio state legislator , Rep. Lynn Wachtmann , R-Napoleon , to champion legislation she had drafted to restrict access to abortion .
The Ohio bill was the first “ heartbeat bill ” of its kind and so extreme—limiting abortion at the detection of a “ heartbeat , ” making no exceptions for incest or rape—that other anti-choice groups and legislators balked at it .
Questioning the wondered whether the legislation would do more harm than good for their cause .
Supporters of the bill said incremental steps weren ’ t working and were eager to directly challenge Roe .
Porter herself was explicit about her goal , stating in 2017 , that her “ heartbeat bill ” was “ the foot in the door ” to totally outlawing abortion .
“ It was not my original idea , but I ’ ve been a pro-life leader here in Columbus for 26 years , and I ’ m committed to can go to protect human life , and that ’ s clearly what this bill is all about , ” Wachtmann stated in February 2011 shortly before he introduced the bill .
At that point , Faith2Action already had a full-throttle pressure campaign underway to get the legislation passed .
Under Porter ’ s leadership , the group urged its supporters to send heart-shaped red balloons to the Ohio governor and state representatives ahead of Valentine ’ s Day , “ encouraging their support of the Heartbeat Bill ” and to “ Have repeated in a column for the far-right WND site .
The bill passed in the state House later that year .
When the legislation stalled in the state Senate in 2012 , Faith2Action took out a full-page ad in the Columbus Dispatch and made thousands of robocalls asking its supporters to contact state senators .
That ad featured Dr. John Willke , founder of the National Right to Life and another sponsor of the bill .
Revered in anti-abortion rights circles , Willke had perpetuated the false myth that a woman ’ s which may be among the reasons why the bill did not provide exceptions for abortion in case of rape .
Another is that Porter doesn ’ t think women should be allowed to have any abortion , stating in 2017 , “ We ’ re not for killing any child , especially an innocent child for the crime of his father.
” The bill had wide support among religious-right figures both in state and out of state .
An archived version of Faith2Action ’ s site for the bill lists E.W .
Jackson James Robison , Rick Joyner , Wendy Wright , Ken Blackwell , Jay Sekulow , Tony Perkins , James Dobson , and Frank Pavone as supporters .
It also featured a list of current and former elected officials : former Texas Gov .
Rick Perry , former Arkansas Gov .
Mike Huckabee , Rep. Jim Jordan ( then an Ohio state legislator ) , Rep. Louie Gohmert , former Sen. Rick Santorum , former Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich , former Rep. Michele Bachmann , then Rep. Steve King , and former the bill did reach then Gov .
John Kasich , he vetoed it twice , preferring to sign another strict abortion ban at 12 weeks and citing constitutionality issues with the “ heartbeat ” legislation .
But the bill found a champion in his Republican successor , Gov .
Mike DeWine , who signed Ohio ’ s “ heartbeat bill ” into law in 2019 before Planned Parenthood and abortion clinics represented by the American Civil Liberties Union sued .
A federal judge issued a temporary stay on the abortion ban and extended of red states followed suit , passing their own “ heartbeat ” abortion bans .
The legislation mostly faced the same fate as the Ohio law—that is , except for Texas .
The Texas law provides a loophole those others did not : Instead of the state attorney general or other state officials enforcing the law , the law explicitly prevents state governments from enforcing it and essentially deputizes every citizen to sue anyone who performs an abortion or aids a woman in getting one .
That leaves abortion clinics at a loss by the law ’ s drafters : to prevent intervention from federal courts .
So when the Supreme Court had a chance to stay the legislation , the conservative majority essentially said that the nation ’ s top court had its hands tied , that abortion providers in the state had not addressed the “ complex and novel ” procedural questions and would have to do so before the Supreme Court would take it up .
The Texas law also provides a bounty to incentivize enforcement : Any person who successfully sues would covered .
Defendants who are successful are not entitled to have their legal fees covered , and anyone who aided a woman in getting an abortion could be sued multiple times .
The effect is that most if not all clinics in the state have stopped providing abortions after six weeks for fear of bankruptcy .
The Texas law was sponsored by Texas state Sen. Bryan Hughes , who asked conservative litigator Jonathan F. Mitchell how anti-abortion legislation could avoid the fate of other “ heartbeat bills ” that languished without enforcement after a former Texas solicitor general and active member of the Federalist Society , was already steeped in the religious-right effort to overturn Roe , representing towns sued by the ACLU over their ordinances that made abortion a crime .
In 2017 , while working alongside with Alliance Defending Freedom on a case about religious freedom , he trotted out a theory that he ’ d go on to use in Texas , claiming that no matter how unconstitutional a law was , if it did not charge a state official with the duty produce a federal lawsuit .
Mitchell would become the primary architect of the Texas abortion law ’ s private-enforcement provision .
“ We knew we had to have another way , ” said Hughes , according to the Wall Street Journal .
“ We were going to find a way to pass a heartbeat bill that was going to be upheld.
” It ’ s unclear how much Porter , who was a supporter of the Texas law , had to do with this particular loophole , but the drafters of that particular the “ heartbeat bill ” to thank and the religious right ’ s decades-long campaign to overturn Roe of which she was a part .
National religious-right organizations , like ADF , have championed a state-by-state approach to chip away at the landmark legislation .
This spring , the Supreme Court announced it will hear a case about a Mississippi law banning abortions at 15 weeks , a law that was based on ADF ’ s model legislation and a major threat to a woman ’ s right to an abortion .
But as big of a blow to Roe as has Porter ’ s “ heartbeat ” legislation .
Already , other states are considering a law based on Texas ’ version of the “ heartbeat bill.
” As she celebrated last Wednesday , Porter , too , looked forward .
“ The National Association of Christian Lawmakers just adopted the Texas version of the heartbeat law as their model legislation , ” she said , a smile dancing across her face between sentences .
“ That means we ’ re about to see a actually get enforced .
”