Republican officials in Pennsylvania and Georgia are responding to Democratic victories in 2020 with new efforts to make voting more difficult , and they ’ re being cheered on by the Family Research Council ’ s Tony Perkins , who called it “ some of the best news ” of the year so far in his “ Washington Watch ” newsletter Friday .
Voting by mail has been embraced and carried out successfully by blue states like Oregon and red states like Utah .
But after massive voter turnout in 2020 doomed Trump ’ s reelection efforts , some Republicans for future victories on restricting mail-in ballots .
So-called “ no-excuse ” mail-in voting was adopted in Pennsylvania in 2019 as part of a bipartisan compromise on election reform and was passed with overwhelming Republican support .
( “ No excuse ” simply means that a voter does not have to list a reason why they can ’ t get to the polls in person in order to vote by mail . )
But that was before Trump lost the state due to progressive organizers ’ success at mobilizing a massive turnout , strongholds .
Perkins is delighted that “ Republicans from the Keystone State are vowing to completely overhaul the mail-in ballot system that may have wrongly handed Joe Biden the presidency.
” Perkins ’ s language indicates that he plans to continue perpetuating the big lie that Trump won the election and had it stolen from him .
And Perkins seems to hope that will give cover to Republican efforts to restrict voting .
Perkins quoted a memo from two state senators who claimed , “ By removing the provisions of law that allow regain some trust in our elections ’ integrity.
” Perkins continued : For tens of millions of voters still frustrated by November ’ s result , this move by Republican leaders should come as a huge shot in the arm .
There ’ s hope on the horizon .
Despite all the ways the Left is trying to frustrate and silence conservatives , they still have the spine to stand up and fight for election integrity .
We may not be able to change the outcome from 2020 , but we can at moving forward .
And that ought to be the rallying cry in every statehouse across this great country .
Perkins even had positive words for Georgia Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger , who was reviled by many Trump supporters after he refused Trump ’ s demands that he manipulate the vote count to allow Trump to claim victory in the state .
But , Perkins wrote , Raffesnperger is now “ calling for an end to no-excuse mail-in voting.
” Perkins ended his article with a call to arms : We have two Every Republican in every state legislature should be demanding an audit of the processes , voter rolls , mail-in provisions , and any other irregularities that contributed to the disaster we witnessed in 2020 .
If a state like Pennsylvania has the guts to stand up to the liberal establishment and demand change , every state should .
Contact your state leaders and ask them to restore faith in the democratic process by introducing legislation to end the universal mail-in ballot .