June is celebrated as Pride Month by supporters of LGBTQ equality in the U.S. , which means it is also an opportunity for religious-right groups and leaders to vent about the progress the LGBTQ community has made toward legal and lived equality .
Franklin Graham , for example , expressed his outrage that LGBTQ equality is once again the policy of the U.S. government , reflected in some embassies ’ decision to fly a rainbow flag : The Family Research Council ’ s Tony Perkins is also unhappy about the Biden administration ’ s pro-equality policies .
A June 3 It ’ s been four years since Americans have had to live through an administration ’ s month-long rainbow love fest .
Of course , Joe Biden , who made LGBT activism his number-one priority , didn ’ t wait for June to start his radical government revolution .
From the minute he stepped into the Oval Office , the perversion of education , health care , our troops , foreign policy , taxpayer spending , facilities , school sports , and social services has been at the top of his to-do list his proclamation on LGBT Pride month , he ’ s managed to saturate his administration with an army of LGBT extremists .
“ Nearly 14 percent of my 1,500 agency appointees identify as LGBTQ ” — giving the radical agenda a foothold in every level of government .
Making matters more outrageous , Biden has decided to order everyone in a military uniform to play along .
A day later , FRC Action sent a fundraising email from Perkins warning that “ if we allow the Equality Act to reach President Biden ’ of the most radical left-turns in our nation ’ s history , ” adding that the nation would be “ fundamentally changed.
” The National Organization for Marriage , which does not view marriage equality as settled law and hopes that former President Donald Trump ’ s Supreme Court justices will overturn it , pushed its own complaint about Pride Month in an email from its president Brian Brown last Friday .
Under the headline “ Proud of what ?
” Brown suggested that during the month of June , parents should “ products and the grocery store and absolutely to not subject your family to the depravity and raunchiness of the so-called ‘ Pride Parades ’ that have become so common , especially in urban areas.
” Brown asked for money to support NOM ’ s work “ on the front lines fighting against the indoctrination of children into the LGBT lifestyle and to restore marriage to our national laws.
” Brown warned , “ LGBT extremists and their allies will seemingly stop at nothing to see people like us crushed , driven from the thrown into the dustbin of history.
” Intercessors for America , a network of “ prayer warriors ” that functions as a zealous promoter of Trump , noted unhappily that June is also the anniversary of the Supreme Court ’ s pro-marriage equality ruling in Obergefell .
In a cover letter sent with IFA ’ s June newsletter , Dave Kubal wrote , “ In June 2015 , the Supreme Court handed down the disastrous Obergefell decision that required all states to issue same-sex marriage licenses and accelerated the cultural path toward unbiblical article by IFA Communications Director Judy McDonough titled , “ How Did Wedding Month Become Pride Month ?
” “ June used to be the most common month for weddings , with brides and grooms everywhere , ” McDonough complained .
“ Now , June means gay pride images and advertisements championing the LGBTQ+ community.
” McDonough blamed the advance of pro-equality policies on “ the LGBTQ+ ‘ rebranding ’ and ‘ victimhood ’ marketing propaganda ” that she claims was led by Hollywood and the music and media industries after the HIV/AIDS the LGBTQ+ community.
” McDonough cited the Family Research Council ’ s opposition to the federal Equality Act , warning that it “ would give special protection for LGBTQ+ behavior ” and “ require the faith community to accept sexual ideologies antithetical to core beliefs.
” Religious-right groups are universally opposed to the Equality Act , but perhaps no one is more dishonest about the law ’ s requirements than Liberty Counsel ’ s Mat Staver , who said in a June 5 email that the Equality Act would give “ legal rights told his followers that that law would require religious schools to hire “ goat lovers.
” Staver ’ s convoluted reasoning , if that ’ s the correct word , is that the Q in LGBTQ stands for Queer , which , Liberty Counsel has falsely concluded , somehow means that the law would give legal protections to nearly 550 “ paraphilias , ” including pedophilia .
In truth , the Equality Act defines sexual orientation to mean heterosexuality , homosexuality , or bisexuality .
In a June 3 email marked “ URGENT to advance a radical LGBTQ agenda , Joe Biden just put Kamala Harris in charge of HR 5 [ the Equality Act ] to get it passed before the end of June—the so-called ‘ Pride ’ month.
” Staver added , “ The pressure to force HR 5 ’ s perverse LGBT and ‘ Q ’ agenda on everyone , including churches and religious schools , is now on maximum overdrive.
” Liberty Counsel claims that the bill “ literally sets the stage for banning the Bible ” —the kind of false alarmist hate crimes legislation signed by President Barack Obama .
Cliff Kincaid , described by the Southern Poverty Law Center as “ an unrepentant propagandist for extremist right-wing causes ” with “ a special loathing for gays and lesbians , ” weighed in on Wednesday with a blog post complaining , “ While gays are entitled to ‘ pride , ’ morally straight white people are not .
This is America 2021.
” One sign of the religious right ’ s intolerance of any expression of support for LGBTQ equality was the backlash against who tweeted a “ Happy # PrideMonth ” message on June 2 , saying , “ GOP is proud to have doubled our LGBTQ support over the last 4 years , and we will continue to grow our big tent by supporting measures that promote fairness and balance protections for LGBTQ Americans and those with deeply held religious beliefs.
” Some LGBTQ people responded with truth-telling about the GOP ’ s anti-LGBTQ record and Republican officials ’ ongoing attacks on the rights of transgender people .
But , those critics were not Perkins , who urged followers to stop contributing money to the RNC until it “ gets its act together and decided to represent real conservative values.
” In another tweet , Perkins claimed that “ religious freedom is being endangered by those demanding forced acceptance of the LGBTQ agenda from the elementary classroom to the corporate board room and everything in between.
” He added , “ There can be no compromise on our First Freedom.
” Jenna Ellis , a Trump campaign attorney , also slammed McDaniel , tweeting , “ We a party of conservative principles and traditional values .
I and millions of decent , faith-based Americans , will never endorse a leftist , immoral agenda .
”