The manufactured panic over public acknowledgment of racism in U.S. history , institutions , and culture is being promoted across the massive right-wing infrastructure of media , think tanks , and political groups .
From pro-Trump “ prayer warriors ” to anti-public education activists , hard-right commentators and politicians are misappropriating the academic term “ critical race theory , ” or “ CRT , ” to feed the narrative of white grievance on which the Republican Party hopes to mobilize conservative voter turnout in 2022 and 2024 .
Christopher Rufo , a denizen of such right-wing institutions as the Discovery credited with launching the war on CRT with an article in the Manhattan Institute ’ s City Journal .
A rant about his objections to CRT on Fox News last year caught the attention of then-President Donald Trump , who responded with an executive order banning diversity trainings by federal agencies and contractors .
( President Joe Biden dismissed Trump ’ s order when he took office . )
The right-wing reaction includes state laws to , in the name of resisting CRT , limit teaching about systemic racism in U.S. history and , U.S. Sen. Tom Cotton , R-Ark.
, introduced federal legislation to “ defund ” CRT .
The legislation targets funding for K-12 schools and colleges and would “ prohibit the federal government and federal contractors from using trainings inspired by critical race theory , ” which a press release from Cotton ’ s office says would codify the rescinded Trump executive order .
Rep. Dan Bishop , R-N.C. , has introduced a companion bill in the U.S. House of Representatives .
Rufo delights in the ruckus he has caused , saying that villain ” and bragging on social media about having created a narrative that right-wing activists can use to discredit policy ideas and “ cultural inanities ” they don ’ t like .
In March , Rufo appeared on the podcast of Jack Murphy ( a pseudonym used by writer John Goldman ) , author of “ Democrat to Deplorable.
” Murphy is an associate of conspiracy theorists , right-wing online personalities , and so-called “ alt-light ” characters including Jack Posobiec , Mike Cernovich , Laura Loomer , Cassandra Fairbanks , and Tim feminism .
“ Hillary Clinton ’ s vagina was the centerpiece of her campaign , ” he wrote in his 2018 book .
Murphy has identified the notoriously misogynist blogger Daryush Valizadeh , the former “ pickup artist ” ​known as Roosh , as an inspiration .
Murphy has created a group called Liminal Order that is designed to mold men into his model of masculinity .
“ The world always needs a villain and today , that villain is the white straight male who knows what he wants and is unafraid to the “ About Me ” section of his website .
On his “ Jack Murphy Live ” podcast , Murphy admiringly referred to Rufo as an “ all-around bomb-thrower.
” Rufo elaborated , saying that he is building a database of “ raw material ” —stories people send him about CRT supposedly running wild in educational settings—that he can “ translate ” into a “ coherent story ” that pushes people ’ s “ emotional buttons.
” Rufo described himself as dropping “ bombs ” to create an “ air-war narrative ” against article in the Chronicle of Higher Education that he portrayed as proof that a professor ’ s worst nightmare would be Rufo getting his hands on class materials and giving them to Tucker Carlson .
The article described a wildly misleading propaganda attack on a professor by anti-CRT zealots .
The professor ’ s “ crime ” ?
Sharing with her students a CNN article about the impact of big tech algorithms on racial inequality .
But Rufo declared that it is “ phenomenal ” and “ a great sign ” that professors In a recent profile of Rufo for New York Magazine ’ s Intelligencer , Sarah Jones reported that many of Rufo ’ s stories are false or misleading .
“ What Rufo and his ilk really object to isn ’ t critical race theory at all but the ugliness of history , ” Jones wrote .
“ When an educator exposes the racism that lurks within this nation , they often find themselves at the mercy of an onslaught from the right.
” In the Trump era , Rufo ’ s carelessness with being a powerful promoter of white racial grievance .
When Murphy asked him about criticism of the 1964 Civil Rights Act by some right-wing and left-wing activists , Rufo said the law was an important step in fighting racism but that there is tension in how the law is interpreted and works in practice .
He claimed that CRT is “ anti-white ” racism and asked whether the landmark law—which prohibits discrimination based on race , color , religion , and sex or national origin in a number of arenas—will be enforced to Republican state legislators are now using the Civil Rights Act to justify bans on “ anti-whiteness trainings.
” Murphy was fired from his job at D.C. ’ s public school charter board in 2018 after exposure of some offensive online writings about women and immigrants , including the assertion that “ feminists need rape.
” Murphy portrays his exposure and firing as an experience of persecution and “ character assassination.
” “ So I said some crazy stuff , ” he wrote in a Twitter thread about his years as a blogger .
” Murphy has denounced white supremacy and white nationalism and publicly sparred with alt-right figure Richard Spencer , who led the tiki-torch march on the University of Virginia the night before the 2017 far-right melee in Charlottesville .
This year Murphy was named a “ Lincoln Fellow ” at the Claremont Institute , which former Right Wing Watch reporter Jared Holt described in 2019 as an “ increasingly white nationalist think tank.
” Claremont Institute President Ryan P. Williams wrote in a 2019 essay titled “ Defeat-America—Defeat Multiculturalism ” that “ today ’ replace America , ” ​a turn of phrase bearing echoes of the white supremacist “ great replacement theory , ” which claims that the growth in the share of the U.S. population claimed by non-white people is an attempt at cultural genocide .
The essay launched a Claremont Institute project to defend “ American greatness .
”