Last week , Right Wing Watch was informed that YouTube had terminated our account due to what it said were repeated violations of the platform ’ s community guidelines against hate speech and disinformation , stemming from our coverage of the bigoted views and outrageous conspiracy theories promoted by the right-wing activists we monitor .
We appealed YouTube ’ s decision , explaining the mission of our organization​—to shine a bright light on purveyors of hate and disinformation—and the role that posting such videos plays in our efforts to combat the bigotry and disinformation espoused by the right .
When Watch announced that our account had been terminated , which generated not only a wave of press coverage about the loss of our channel but also a tsunami of rejoicing and mockery from right-wing activists .
The right ’ s glee , alas , was short-lived , as YouTube eventually reversed its decision amid the wave of bad press and reinstated our channel , which makes the gloating over our supposed demise with which End Times conspiracy theorist Rick Wiles kicked off his “ TruNews ” program Monday night now appear rather foolish be layoffs very soon inside the organization because there ’ s no platform for them to spew their lies and propaganda , ” Wiles declared , clearly unaware that YouTube is just one of several social media platforms Right Wing Watch uses to share our content .
“ So their writers , their editors , all the people that they had working to smear us and other ministries , what are they gon na do ?
I suspect they ’ re gon na lose their jobs this week.
” “ Let me make shut down Right Wing Watch , ” Wiles celebrated .
“ Not YouTube .
Jesus Christ shut down Right Wing Watch today .
This is an example of God working through unsaved people at YouTube to carry out his vengeance against those who attack and smear his servants .
So I didn ’ t have to lift a finger against Right Wing Watch .
I think they ’ ll disappear in the coming weeks and months .
There ’ s no purpose for them now.
” While we normally use the video hosting website , in this case , it seems fitting to use our newly restored YouTube channel to host this clip of Wiles prematurely celebrating the demise of Right Wing Watch .