Radical right-wing pastor Tony Spell has become a hero to right-wing activists for his refusal to comply with restrictions put in place to help stop the spread of the COVID-19 virus .
Spell , a Louisiana-based pastor who has proudly and openly defied the state ’ s stay-at-home orders , mask mandates , and other public health restrictions , appeared on “ The Alex Jones Show ” Wednesday , where he revealed that he ’ s also an unabashed bigot and conspiracy theorist .
“ We have a command—not a suggestion , not even a recommendation—from God to resist and “ Daniel 11:32 says , ‘ And such as do wickedly shall the Antichrist corrupt by flatteries.
’ That word ‘ flatteries ’ means feminism , it means de-masculinization of mankind .
That ’ s what the mask does .
That ’ s what the vaccine does .
That ’ s what complying with these inhumane , ungodly orders does.
” “ Satan conquers us by domesticating us and making us weak , ” replied Jones .
“ He does , ” Spell agreed .
“ That ’ s why Pharaoh said murder .
That ’ s why Herod wanted to kill every baby boy two years and younger , to kill Jesus .
Yesterday , an attorney in our church is representing a nine-month-old Black baby boy who is being adopted by two married Black women , and whenever she called it ‘ an abomination , ’ the judge stopped the proceedings and put her out of the courtroom .
This woman was simply protecting a nine-month-old helpless baby boy that is already an endangered species !
” “ You know , statistically , those ” Jones interrupted .
“ It ’ s like a ritual .
They go after their testicles .
I mean , it ’ s like a religion to target boys with this whole transgenderism .
They admit it ’ s a transhumanist move.
” “ Exactly right , ” Spell declared .
“ The vaccine takes away people ’ s ability—because of Bill Gates ’ agenda that is in Daniel 7:25—it takes away your ability to resist .
It takes away your desire to be zealous and fanatical .
Look at people that zombies .
They ’ re just wandering around with no goals .
”