Right-wing conspiracy theorist Jack Posobiec wants you to hang out with him at Turning Point USA ’ s “ America Fest , ” billed as the “ biggest event in the conservative movement ” in Phoenix , Arizona , Dec 18-21 .
At least that ’ s what he says on Twitter , where he offers a promo code for the event and insists it “ makes a great Christmas present.
” Joining him will be TPUSA founder Charlie Kirk , Fox News ’ Tucker Carlson , former White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany , and Donald Trump Jr .
, Christian nationalists , conspiracy theorists , and even right-wing activist athletes .
A flashy promo video shows young conservatives dancing at what looks like a concert—and indeed , the event promises full concerts from a handful of younger country music stars , “ God Bless the USA ” singer Lee Greenwood , and Dee Jay Silver .
While the promotion makes the event look more like a party , Turning Point USA is an organization that trains and mobilizes right-wing college students .
This summer , that mobilization focused on targeting public about racism in U.S. history and implementing LGBTQ-inclusive policies .
The group has raised tens of millions of dollars , peddled disinformation about President Joe Biden ’ s win in 2020 , and stoked fears about COVID-19 vaccines .
The Associated Press writes that Kirk , who has called George Floyd a “ scumbag , ” “ exploits the racial divide to reach Gen Z.
” Kirk has increasingly partnered with Christian nationalist forces , and the “ America Fest ” speaker attendee list reflects that .
Religious-right activist pastor Jack Hibbs of attendance as will religious-right activist musician Sean Feucht , who has toured the country protesting pandemic-related restrictions on public gatherings .
Feucht launched a project to mobilize conservative Christian millennials after his unsuccessful run for U.S. Congress in Northern California .
The speaker list includes some newer ( and younger ) Congress members : 26-year-old Madison Cawthorn , who released a fervently Christian nationalist ad urging Christians to “ take our country back ” and in another speech called on parents to raise their sons to be “ monsters ” ; Lauren Boebert Ilhan Omar is a terrorist ; and Matt Gaetz , who is facing a Justice Department investigation into whether he paid women for sex and , separately , whether he slept with a minor and transported her across state lines .
Rep. Louie Gohmert and Rep. Andy Biggs , the latter of whom Ali Alexander said helped plan the Stop the Steal rally on Jan. 6 , are also scheduled to speak .
The attendee list also features athletes and gun aficionados of the right-wing movement : with appearances from Michael Chandler , the UFC ; professional bow hunter Cameron Hanes ; and John Lovell , better known as Warrior Poet , who offers trainings on tactical pistol and rifle use and small unit tactics as well as his vision of a “ bold and dangerous masculinity.
” The event ’ s speaker list indicates the right ’ s vision for the future .
Posobiec , who peddled the far-right Pizzagate conspiracy theory , is a contributor to TPUSA and , judging from his promotion of the event , will likely be a main feature of Kirk to interview 18-year-old Kyle Rittenhouse , who shot three and killed two protesters at a Black Lives Matter protest last year .
Rittenhouse was found not guilty on all charges last month and became a hero , first in the eyes of the far-right and then the broader right-wing movement .
The interview opened with Kirk expressing personal affinity : “ Kyle , from the first moment I saw you in the news and saw video of you defending yourself , I felt we had something in common .
”