The Christian Broadcasting Network on Tuesday morning promoted an appearance by the Heritage Foundation ’ s Hans von Spakovsky on CBN ’ s Faith Nation , where he claimed that the Senate impeachment trial of former President Donald Trump is unconstitutional and compared it to Soviet dictator Joseph Stalin ’ s show trials of political opponents .
The House of Representatives impeached Trump in January for inciting the deadly Jan. 6 insurrection at the U.S. Capitol .
“ I think this unfortunately resembles the kind of show trials that Joseph Stalin staged in the 1930s against political opponents and people , ” von Spakovsky said .
He claimed that the trial would set a terrible precedent that a future Republican-controlled Senate could use to try to impeach former presidents like Bill Clinton or Barack Obama .
And he charged that Democrats are “ making up the rules to favor them any way they want.
” Von Spakovsky served on Trump ’ s short-lived sham “ Election Integrity Commission ” that seemed to be designed to manufacture evidence of Trump ’ s baseless claims that he would have won the popular vote in 2016 Spakovsky had urged the Trump administration not to appoint Democrats or moderate Republicans to the commission .
In 2018 , a federal judge reviewing a Kansas law requiring people to prove their citizenship when registering to vote delivered a harsh assessment of von Spakovsky ’ s credibility as an expert witness .
“ He has never testified as an expert witness before and has published no peer-reviewed research on any subject , ” the judge wrote .
“ Notably , Mr. von Spakovsky could not identify any expert on the subject of noncitizen to say : The Court gives little weight to Mr. von Spakovsky ’ s opinion and report because they are premised on several misleading and unsupported examples of noncitizen voter registration , mostly outside the State of Kansas .
His myriad misleading statements , coupled with his publicly stated preordained opinions about this subject matter , convinces the Court that Mr. von Spakovsky testified as an advocate and not as an objective expert witness .
… While his lack of academic background is not fatal to his credibility in this matter , the , in conjunction with his clear agenda and misleading statements , render his opinions unpersuasive .