Republican Rep. Lauren Boebert of Colorado spoke Saturday at a conference held by the Truth & Liberty Coalition , a religious-right political organization founded by right-wing pastor Andrew Wommack .
Addressing a crowd of conservative Christian activists gathered in the auditorium at Wommack ’ s Charis Bible College , Boebert called on the audience to put faith into action by calling on God to remove ungodly leaders in Washington , D.C. , and replace them with “ righteous men and women of God ” who realize that the government should be taking orders from the church .
“ When we world and show more contempt and aggravation and aggression towards unvaccinated Americans than he does terrorists , we have a problem , ” Boebert said .
“ And that ’ s why I have articles of impeachment to impeach Joe Biden , Kamala Harris.
” “ We can not take another 18 months , we can not take another three years of this poor , failed leadership , ” she continued .
“ We are sons and daughters of revolutionaries .
They went to battle for a lot less .
They took a it ’ s time we get involved .
I need you involved in every local level .
I need you speaking up .
I need the world to hear your voice .
You know the word of God , and you know that there is power in your words , that the world was framed by words .
You have the Lord God Almighty on your side .
I need you to use your voice and speak.
” “ What if Jesus showed up today and said , ‘ From this point forward it ’ ?
” Boebert asked rhetorically .
“ He said it !
That ’ s exactly what he said to us .
So , what are we saying ?
Are we going to sit and agree with the enemy ?
Are we going to agree with what the enemy is doing ?
Are we going to sit back and complain and murmur ?
Or are we going to speak life into this nation ?
Are we going to speak victory ?
Are we going to declare that God removes these unrighteous politicians and installs righteous men and women of God ?
” “ You have the God kind of faith , and that faith speaks , ” she added .
“ That faith speaks to mountains , those impossible , immovable situations , and I think there ’ s some mountains they need to hear your voice .
… It ’ s time the church speaks up .
The church has relinquished too much authority to government .
We should not be taking orders from the government ; the government needs to be looking at do we do this effectively ? '
”