Ali Alexander , the lead organizer of the so-called Stop the Steal movement , received a subpoena Thursday afternoon from the House select committee to investigate the Jan. 6 attack on the U.S. Capitol .
Another two were issued to Nathan Martin , who worked with Alexander and reserved the Jan. 6 rally space , and to the Stop the Steal organization .
In response , Alexander accused the government of “ gaslighting ” and blamed the violence on “ agitators dressed in militant outfits ” and “ police brutality.
” Addressing his supporters on Telegram Thursday night , Alexander across this nation asking our government to look into election irregularities ” and that his rallies on Jan. 5 and Jan. 6 were his “ duty as a concerned citizen.
” “ FBI failures , agitators dressed in militant outfits , and police brutality which escalated into a manufactured ‘ riot ’ disrupted our two legally permitted peaceful rallies , ” he claimed .
While some right-wing activists took pride in the insurrection , others found it politically expedient to baselessly blame the violence on supposed undercover anti-fascist activists and federal agents .
latter camp despite fomenting such extreme action .
The violence at the Capitol wouldn ’ t have been possible without justification .
Right Wing Watch reported on how , for months , Alexander and other Stop the Steal organizers and participants ceaselessly told Trump supporters that the election had been stolen from their hero , despite no evidence to that effect .
Before the election results were even in , Alexander claimed that Democrats couldn ’ t have won , and when Joe Biden was announced victor , he relaunched the Stop the to discredit mail-in ballots and disrupt vote-counting .
Rallies were held in states across the country with speakers like QAnon conspiracy theorist Lin Wood , “ Kraken ” litigator Sidney Powell , “ Pizzagate ” conspiracy theory-booster Jack Posobiec , and radical conspiracy theorist Alex Jones , who peddled conspiracy theories and couched their calls for violence in the language of the American Revolution .
On Nov. 14 , Alexander led the first of three Stop the Steal rallies in D.C. , welcoming white nationalist “ groypers ” from Nick Fuente ’ s , and far-right militia groups .
He applauded the Proud Boys after they engaged in violent skirmishes with counterprotesters following a Stop the Steal rally in December .
Earlier in the day at that rally , Stewart Rhodes , the leader of the far-right paramilitary group the Oath Keepers , stood on the mainstage calling for “ bloody war ” if Trump didn ’ t invoke the Insurrection Act to stay in power .
In a Periscope stream weeks before the election , Alexander said he organized the Jan. 6 rally with Reps. Andy Biggs .
“ We four schemed up putting maximum pressure on Congress while they were voting , ” he said in the since-deleted video .
On the eve of the insurrection , Alexander held a rally in D.C. ’ s Freedom Plaza and led the crowd in chants of “ Victory or death !
” Right Wing Watch ’ s Peter Montgomery reported at the time .
“ Our government is only our government if it is legitimate , ” Alexander declared .
“ 1776 is always an option.
” Stop the starting “ a rebellion against the Deep State.
” The next day Trump loyalists arrived for the “ Save America ” rally held in the Ellipse under the Stop the Steal banner .
They listened to speakers continue to peddle the big lie that the election was stolen from Trump before Trump himself took the stage and told his supporters to “ fight like hell , ” to “ stop the steal , ” and to march on the U.S. Capitol to “ encourage ” members of Congress to resist certifying the electoral most ardent followers did just that , breaching the Capitol , attacking police officers , and searching for members of Congress whom they wished to do more than just encourage .
As he looked on at the Trump crowd descending on the Capitol , Alexander said in a video posted to Twitter after the violence had already begun , “ I don ’ t disavow this .
I do not denounce this.
” In his response to the subpoena , Alexander claimed he was being targeted because he is a “ Black patriotic ” insisting , despite earlier comments , that “ There is no place for vandalism or violence in our Stop the Steal movement.
” He went on to lash out at media organizations and the government : Big Media Corporations and Censoring Social Media Companies have deprived me the traditional right of reply afforded to those accused in the court of public opinion .
These accusations , absent of any evidence of wrongdoing , have now been weaponized by a partisan Congressional Committee which lacks public support .
This government will paint anyone domestic terrorist ” to play on the same xenophobia they used to militarize our local police stations and pass the Patriot Act .
All this gaslighting will not give Nancy Pelosi and Joe Biden the mandate deprived to them by the American voters .
The Jan. 6 committee had previously issued subpoenas for figures closely associated with Trump—former Trump campaign spokeswoman Katrina Pierson , former adviser Steve Bannon , former chief of staff Mark Meadows , former communications aide Dan Scavino , ex-Defense Department official Kashyap Patel—as well as right-wing activists and figures Amy Kremer and Kylie Jane Kremer , “ dirty trickster ” Roger Stone , Posobiec , Proud Boys leader Enrique Tarrio , and George Papadopoulos .