Joshua Feuerstein , a hard-right evangelical online personality , declared at a Jan. 5 pro-Trump rally in Washington , D.C. , “ It is time for war !
Stop the steal !
” The next day , a violent insurrection at the U.S. Capitol interrupted congressional affirmation of Joe Biden ’ s Electoral College victory and left five people dead .
The rally featured right-wing leaders mixing Christian nationalism , Trumpism , stolen-election conspiracy theories , COVID-19 denialism , and threats of violence .
Feuerstein was one of several speakers who talked about the “ black robe regiment , ” their congregations to join the war for independence from the British .
Here ’ s what Feuerstein had to say at the rally : Ladies and gentlemen , the Bible declares that the thief and the enemy has come , but to kill , to steal , and to destroy .
For the last 40 years , the liberals have tried to kill our unborn babies , steal elections , and destroy the Constitution .
But patriots have come to Washington , D.C. , to make their voices heard that we will not There is a particular passage that perfectly parallels the perilous times in which we live .
The Bible says that the shepherd David was on the back side of a Judean hill tending the flock when a lion and a bear came to steal the little lambs .
Why did God put David there ?
He put him there to stop the steal !
You see , the liberals and leftists know that if you come in the spirit of a predator like the lion and the bear , and you take one another little lamb tomorrow , and another little lamb the next day .
But we , as the church of the living God , are standing up saying , “ We ’ re not just mad at Hell , but we ’ re mad as hell.
” The Bible declares that it was David that defeated the lion and the bear .
Unfortunately , today , we don ’ t fight lions and bears .
We fight liberals and RINOs .
[ RINO is right-wing slang for Republican in Name Only , referring sufficiently right-wing . ]
And let me speak to Right Side Broadcasting , to every cowardly congressman , or limp-wristed , weak-kneed sissified senator like Ben Sasse and little Mitt Romney and son-of-a-Mitch McConnell .
We say you cowardly congressmen and sissified senators better stand up tomorrow like shepherds and stop the steal .
I close with this thought , as I am echoed by patriot preachers and black robe regiment .
It was the preacher Emerson that stood there , a black robe regiment , from his pulpit and preached to several took off the black robe that that signified that he was a preacher and he said , “ There is a time for peace , and there is a time for war .
And now it is time for war.
” And so today , I stand with the black robe regiment , and I am one preacher declaring to patriots , “ It is time for war !
Let us stop the steal !
” Feuerstein had declared the 2020 election to be a “ civil war that will change the face American Priority Festival and Conference .
Feuerstein has gained notoriety with online shenanigans , including the claim several years ago that Starbucks ’ holiday season red cup was part of a war on Christmas .
His videos have been criticized for suggesting violence against abortion providers and generating death threats against a bakery owner who declined to make a cake with an anti-gay message on it .
His Instagram account recently featured posts denouncing Vice President Mike Pence as a “ Judas ” and a “ traitor.
” In September , after Feuerstein he used his wife ’ s account to announce that he was starting a new church , “ America ’ s Church , ” in Plano , Texas , that he said would “ never back down , back up , or be silenced.
” Joshua Feuerstein at Jan. 5 , 2021 “ Stop the Steal ” rally from Right Wing Watch on Vimeo .