Religious-right leader Jim Garlow appeared on Tony Perkins ’ “ Pray Vote Stand ” podcast Wednesday night , where Garlow said that the possibility that Senate Democrats might do away with filibuster rules that allow a minority to block legislation is a question of “ good versus evil , of the struggle of angelic beings against the demonic forces.
” He warned that conservative Christians in the United States have to begin thinking of themselves as a “ resistance underground movement.
” Perkins was similarly apocalyptic in his rhetoric about the Democratic legislative agenda that Republicans plan to block with email promoting the podcast , Perkins included Medicare for All and D.C. statehood on a list of “ the Left ’ s most evil policies , ” along with the Equality Act , the For the People Act , “ permanent and unlimited abortion , gun control , open borders , amnesty , ” and “ every other horrible idea on Joe Biden ’ s wish list.
” Perkins urged readers to join him , Garlow , and Sen. Todd Young ( R-Ind . )
on Wednesday evening to ask God “ to ’ s wicked scheme.
” On the podcast , Perkins claimed that the filibuster is “ the one thing standing between the radical left and the end of America as we know it.
” “ I ’ m not gon na sugarcoat this , ” Perkins said .
“ If the filibuster goes , our country is at the mercy of the most evil legislation we ’ ve ever seen.
” Garlow agreed , calling the Equality Act and the For the People Act “ radical legislation ” that would have been “ He discussed the debate over the future of the filibuster in terms of spiritual warfare : This is not an issue any longer of Republican versus Democrat .
This is not an issue of Trump versus Biden .
This is not an issue of right versus left .
We are at a place—this is an issue of right versus wrong , of good versus evil , of the struggle of angelic beings against the demonic forces .
That ’ s not hyperbole .
It ’ s not melodramatic .
It ’ s the warned that a “ ferocious ” enemy is being “ unleashed ” against American Christians , who he said should be thinking of themselves as “ a resistance underground movement ” and switching to encrypted communications systems .
He told listeners of being in another unnamed country three years ago while a former supreme court president was assassinated and people were arrested for being biblically minded conservatives .
“ We ’ re there now as a nation , ” he claimed .
Garlow prayed that God would touch the hearts of “ dictators capital cities who are “ planning and plotting evil.
” Perkins followed with his own prayer for God to intervene and change senators ’ hearts , adding that if they continue to “ move toward this evil of eliminating the filibuster , ” God should “ let gridlock descend on our nation ’ s capital.
” Perkins is president of the Family Research Council , a lobbying and political advocacy group that hosts the annual Values Voter Summit of religious-right activists , which former president Donald Trump has repeatedly attended .
Garlow , a splash when he organized churches to oppose marriage equality in California more than a dozen years ago , and has since become a fixture on the national religious-right scene .
Both Perkins and Garlow actively promoted Trump ’ s false claims that the 2020 election was stolen from him .