From QAnon adherents to “ Stop the Steal ” founder Ali Alexander , far-right extremists are spreading disinformation about the COVID-19 vaccine passports reportedly being considered by the Biden administration .
Earlier this week , The Washington Post revealed that the Biden administration was working with private companies to develop a “ standard way of handling credentials — often referred to as ‘ vaccine passports ’ — that would allow Americans to prove they have been vaccinated ” against COVID-19 .
Other countries , including those within the European Union , also pledged to use vaccine passports or digital certificates summer .
Other initiatives include a World Health Organization-led global effort and an IBM devised digital pass that is now being tested in New York state .
While White House press secretary Jen Psaki said Monday there will be no federal mandate requiring every American to obtain a vaccination credential , it has not stopped far-right activists from spreading disinformation and anti-vaccine propaganda on social media .
“ It is essential that Georgia citizens speak loudly and often to oppose Governor Brian ‘ CCP ’ Kemp ’ s efforts to mandate a COVID , the pro-Trump attorney turned QAnon celebrity , Monday .
“ No bona fide medical evidence exists to justify this blatant violation of our constitutional rights.
” Wood ’ s appeal was amplified across various QAnon conspiracy theory channels on Telegram , with other adherents adding to the fearmongering : “ They want to force [ on ] us a passport to go to the store while no passport is needed for illegals to come into our country , ” wrote one QAnon adherent Tuesday while a second added that vaccine passports would world in the West.
” Other more prominent far-right figures have also spoken out against the proposed vaccine passport , including controversial Reps. Jim Jordan and Marjorie Taylor Greene , the latter of whom stated Tuesday on Twitter that the passport should be called “ Biden ’ s Mark of the Beast ” and insisted she would not comply with the proposed measure .
“ Joe Biden is telling you to keep wearing masks , wants to force # VaccinePassports , and won ’ t allow America to fully reopen [ because ] the Democrats have opened our border to the world and ALL diseases , ” Greene stated in a follow-up tweet on Tuesday .
“ Now YOU have to pay for all the illegals and their COVID is ok. ” Other vocal opposition included Ali Alexander , the far-right organizer behind the so-called Stop the Steal movement that promoted the baseless conspiracy theory that Donald Trump won the 2020 presidential election , who compared the vaccine passport to slavery .
“ Nothing is more important than opposing vaccine passports and travel permission slips , 17 .
“ There ’ s no participating in a system that ’ ll make so obvious our own slavery .
Rebel !
” Opposition to the vaccine passport is the latest example of how far-right extremists are migrating from the unfounded election fraud narrative to anti-vaccine campaigns in an attempt to undermine the Biden administration .
According to The New York Times , “ bashing of the safety and efficacy of vaccines is occurring in chatrooms frequented by all manner of right-wing groups including the Proud Boys ; the Boogaloo movement , spark a second Civil War ; and various paramilitary organizations.
” The far-right narrative that vaccinations are tools of excessive government control has also spread through QAnon channels , many of which are rallying behind politicians who oppose vaccine mandates .
These include Florida Gov .
Ron DeSantis , who announced Monday during a news conference that he planned to ban vaccine passports in his state .
“ It ’ s completely unacceptable for either the government or the private sector to impose upon you the requirement that you show proof of vaccine in normal society , ” DeSantis said during the news conference .
“ You want to go to a movie theater—should you have to show that ?
No .
You want to go to a game—should you have to show that ?
No .
You want to go to a theme park ?
No .
We ’ re not supportive of that.
” The QAnon community has since celebrated DeSantis ’ comments , with one adherent stating that the governor was “ ruining the power grab Democrats are trying to keep going with hero .
”