Right-wing evangelist Lance Wallnau streamed a video on his Facebook page last Friday in which he proudly declared himself to be a Christian nationalist .
Religious-right leaders have tried to claim that Christian nationalism is nothing but a myth , insisting that warnings about right-wing activists trying to infuse their religious beliefs into government to turn the United States into a fundamentalist Christian nation are nothing but “ an attempt to drive conservative Christians out of the public square , ” as Tony Perkins of the Family Research Council recently argued .
Wallnau , by contrast , was quite open President Donald Trump to begin holding public rallies again and to infuse them with right-wing Christianity in order to bring about a revival in the United States .
“ The Lord ’ s saying that there ’ s a train coming , and the Trump train is going to be part of it , ” Wallnau declared .
“ It ’ s really gon na be the movement of the Spirit of God in a kind of a revival .
And listen to me , I got a plan , and you guys We ’ re gon na hit these rallies , we ’ re gon na go to these states—but hear me , hear me , hear me—80 million people voted for Donald Trump .
Half of them were Christians ; the other half , they believe in God , they love the flag , and they ’ re worried about America , they want to keep it great .
There ’ s our harvest.
” “ If we can get the gospel to the rallies , in the name of Jesus , I ’ this idea , ” Wallnau continued .
“ I want the rallies to become partners with the revival that America needs .
We need the rallies to become connected to the revivals .
We need an awakening .
Because when those 30 million low hanging fruit , souls , come to Jesus—that love America and realize without a move of God , without an awakening , without divine intervention , we ’ re sunk because we ’ re up against the beast that is far better entrenched in the high places than we out there , if we can get 20 million out there , my God , you have any idea how that will shift permanently the political landscape of America ?
” “ What other message is going to bring a revival to America ?
” Wallnau asked .
“ Unless we capture the saving of America , capture the flag .
Capture the flag !
People say , ‘ Oh , Lance , I don ’ t know , you sound like a Christian nationalist.
’ Yes , I am a Christian nationalist that God gave us , with his blessed freedom and blessed government and blessed nation , and I will take that flag and lead them to the cross .
Give me the flag , and I ’ ll carry it all the way to Calvary , and I will plant it there where the cross is and say , ‘ There ’ s the one that gave you the nation , there ’ s the only one that can save this nation .
We ’ ve got to give our lives to Jesus @