End Times conspiracy theorist Rick Wiles used Friday ’ s edition of his “ TruNews ” program to warn that heavily armed drug cartels are poised to invade Texas and carry out a mass slaughter of American citizens .
Should such a thing happen , Wiles boldly announced that he would immediately shut down his network and “ will go to Texas and I will fight.
” Wiles , who at age 68 has built an impressive track record of making dire predictions that consistently fail to materialize , predictably blamed the supposed looming invasion on former President Barack Obama The communists running Homeland Security , they ’ re going to betray the Americans , ” Wiles said .
“ I fear a massacre is coming .
A massacre of Americans on the Texas border .
When it happens , it all breaks loose at that point because we all have to pick up our arms and head to Texas .
All of us .
I will walk away from TruNews .
I will go to Texas , and I will fight .
If this happens , that ’ s what I ’ to Texas to fight because there ’ s nothing left .
You can ’ t just sit there and allow this to happen.
” “ When is [ Texas Gov .
Greg ] Abbott going to act ?
” Wiles asked .
“ When is he going to send troops to the border and order them to open fire ?
The thing that ’ s going to hold them back will be the women and children the cartel is using as human shields .
Thank you , George Soros , for your evil this is organized .
The communists have organized this invasion .
… George Soros is paying [ for ] it .
Why is that man allowed to continue walking around ?
Why ?
He is an enemy of our republic .
Why is he allowed to continue to operate in this country ?
” “ I deeply fear a massacre is coming on the border , ” Wiles continued .
“ It will be the second Alamo , and the fight will be on .
But don ’ t count on the U.S. count on the traitors inside the U.S. government to turn on you , to shoot you in the back as you defend the republic .
All hell ’ s going to break loose at this point because the government will split apart .
You ’ ll have loyal patriotic troops , federal agents—FBI agents and so forth—who will defend the republic , but they will be attacked by the communists within their ranks and then by the idiots that just obey an order coming from Washington .
But if you think [ President the republic—Biden is Obama ’ s stooge ; Obama is running this operation .
Obama is the president of the United States .
The communist street organizer is running the Biden administration .
Joe Biden is still Obama ’ s vice president , and Obama is bringing down the republic.
” “ Get ready , ” Wiles warned .
“ Something big is coming on the border of Texas , and it ’ s coming soon .
”