I have to acknowledge that my event at this year ’ s New Yorker Festival—Jane Goodall Talks with Andy Borowitz—sounds suspiciously like one of my satirical Borowitz Report headlines .
But such a conversation really did take place .
Several months ago , the director of The New Yorker Festival , Katherine Stirling , asked me whom I ’ d like to interview at this year ’ s event , which runs through Sunday and features a variety of panel discussions , musical performances , and more .
I said that , because science has been under attack recently , a scientist .
The name she came back with was Jane Goodall .
It was like saying that I wanted to interview a basketball player and getting to talk to LeBron James .
Jane has been a hero of mine since childhood , so it ’ s not an exaggeration to say that the hour I taped with her was a conversation I ’ d waited for my entire life .
( As The New Yorker ’ s Anna Russell recently reported , Jane , who is now eighty-seven , has been living of the pandemic ; we recorded our interview in advance . )
Jane and I discussed her pioneering work with chimps and her efforts on behalf of the Jane Goodall Institute , a conservation organization that also seeks to inspire hope around the world .
And , speaking of hope , we talked about her new book , “ The Book of Hope : A Survival Guide for Trying Times , ” an exquisitely timed publication if ever there was one .
I also broached what might have been an incendiary topic for bonobos get much better press than chimps ?
The conventional wisdom is that , unlike chimps , who are prone to aggression , bonobos are furry pacifists .
Jane confirmed that bonobos are less aggressive than chimps , but she ’ s still grateful that she studied the latter : bonobo behavior , as she explained it , is too steamy for the pages of National Geographic .
In non-pandemic times , Jane travels about three hundred days a year , advocating for wildlife and spreading her message of hope .
I ’ energy for such a superhuman mission ; it turns out that , in addition to her particular kind of passion and spirit , Jane also has a favorite cocktail , which she revealed during our conversation .
I took notes .
If you ’ re envious that I got to spend an hour with Jane , here ’ s some good news : you can , too .
Tickets to Thursday night ’ s virtual event are available to everyone , and our conversation can be streamed anytime before November 10th .
Subscribe discount , and one of our signature tote bags .