Former President Barack Obama ’ s bitter other half is at it again .
Just when you think the former first lady ’ s deep well of racial resentment has run dry , her headline-generating grievances gush forth anew .
Gripe springs eternal .
This week , Michelle Obama told Oprah Winfrey ’ s bestie Gayle King on CBS News that “ many of us still live in fear ” after the conviction of former Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin in the George Floyd case .
By “ us , ” she apparently means black Americans .
But Obama ( $ 70 million- $ 135 million ) and King ( yearly salary at CBS : $ 5.5 million ) aren ’ t just any black Americans .
Their twin self-delusions are a sight to behold .
“ ( Going ) to the grocery store ” strikes fear in her heart , Mrs. O bellyached .
( Never mind the lifetime Secret Service protection and tax-subsidized travel costs she receives to the tune of up to $ 500,000 per year . )
Just “ walking our dogs ” chills the bone , King chimed security detail she travels with , like so many celebrities in her strata do . )
And the icing on unwell Michelle ’ s complaint cake ?
This “ driving while black ” lament : “ Allowing our children to get a license ” is terrifying , the multimillionaire elitist sighed and decried , because “ every time they get in a car by themselves , I worry about what assumption is being made by somebody who doesn ’ t know everything about them .
The fact that they are good students and re playing their music a little loud , maybe somebody sees the back of their head and makes an assumption .
I , like so many parents of black kids … the innocent act of getting a license puts fear in our hearts.
” Oh , horse-hockey .
I ’ ll bet my grocery bill nobody ever “ makes an assumption ” about the Obama daughters posing any criminal threat ever because of their hairstyles or loud car stereo systems .
Nobody would even get close enough to them , for starters , them from campus to the gym to the club .
But don ’ t take my word for how vigilant the armed security is for bubble-wrapped Malia and Sasha .
Just two years ago , Mrs. Moany McMoaner herself was kvetching to King ( who else ? )
about how omnipresent the girls ’ bodyguards were .
In a 2019 interview on CBS News , Michelle Obama described how she would have to call up the daughters ’ friends ’ parents and warn them : “ This is the call .
It ’ We ’ re going to need your Social Security number .
We ’ re going to need your date of birth .
There are going to be men coming to sweep your house .
If you have guns and drugs , just tell them yes because they are going to find it anyway .
… Oh , by the way , there is going to be a man with a gun sitting outside of your door all night .
Let him come in and use the bathroom ; it would just be nice.
and tribulations of presidential families are too much to bear .
“ Imagine trying to have your first kiss ” around “ a bunch of men ” with guns and earpieces , Mrs. O carped to King .
“ I ’ m surprised my kids have any friends , you know ?
” she joked ( sort of ) .
As usual , Michelle Obama ’ s timing is impeccable .
Her latest anti-white , anti-cop rant comes as emasculated police departments yield to the antifa-Black Lives Matter mob , as law-abiding Americans harassed and surveilled by the feds for simply attending the Jan. 6 Trump rally , and as urban black assailants continue to beat the crap out of elderly Asians from coast to coast .
Unfortunately for these racially profiled targets of violence , there are no burly men with guns and earpieces to protect them from harm .
A message for Her Royal Highness : Try less attitude .
More gratitude .
Before you snivel about “ systemic racism , ” check your own Obama privilege .
It overfloweth .