Cut-and-run Democrats are making headlines this month for bailing on their state legislative duties in order to sabotage election integrity efforts in Texas .
After jetting off on a private plane to Washington , D.C. , in hopes of meeting with President Joe Biden last week , six of the high-flying fugitives came down with COVID-19 .
On Monday , aides to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and the White House who had hosted the runaways also tested positive for COVID-19 .
Every one of them claims to have been fully vaccinated .
All germs aside , we ’ ve seen 2011 , I gave a handy nickname to an entourage of liberal Wisconsin and Indiana state legislators who went AWOL to stop their GOP counterparts from passing public employee union reforms : “ Fleebaggers.
” ( I used the term as a rejoinder to leftist elites and their media shills like CNN ’ s Anderson Cooper who referred derogatorily to tea party conservatives as “ teabaggers , ” which has an offensive connotation . )
As I reported at the time , those tail-tucking Democrats paralyzed Republican fiscal reform efforts by crossing state , the nation ’ s sanctuary for political crooks and corruptocrats .
A prominent Wisconsin political activist summed up the cowardice of elected truants in 2011 , and her words still resonate today : “ As the daughter of former Wisconsin Senate Minority Floor Leader William R. Moser , D-Milwaukee , Dist .
6 , ” Mary Magdalen Moser told me , “ I am ashamed of the actions taken by the minority party to subvert our system of government by boycotting its legitimate processes .
Anarchy is undemocratic , and I know grave right now .
… I do not support refusing to participate , because that will not solve any of the issues facing our state.
” Eight years before that episode , more than 50 Texas Democratic state lawmakers holed up in Oklahoma and New Mexico for weeks to stymie a vote on Republican-sponsored redistricting plans they opposed .
Oregon Democrats pulled the same stunt in 2001 to stop votes on redistricting legislation .
More recently , in 2019 , Republicans in Oregon emulated their colleagues on the other side of the aisle legislation and stymie a quorum .
The Fleebagger virus is contagious , but of course , only Democrats are immune from establishment criticism .
Throughout the entirety of the Trump presidency , Democrat obstructionists and their propagandists accused political adversaries of “ subverting the democratic process.
” When President Donald Trump asserted his plenary powers over immigration , he was accused of having “ zero tolerance ” for democracy .
When he appointed conservative judges , he was accused of “ subverting democracy.
” When he challenged the deep state , he was And , of course , when he challenged the legitimacy of the 2020 election results , it was tantamount to a “ coup.
” Everything their political enemies do subverts and sabotages “ democracy , ” but when cut-and-run Democrats evade their own basic duties of representative government , resistance is patriotic again .
Rachel Maddow and Vice President Kamala Harris compared the yellowbellies to civil rights heroes .
The fleebaggers will undoubtedly be nominated for NAACP awards and the Nobel Peace Prize .
It ’ s enough to make you superspreader sick office .