SEOUL , May 28 ( UPI ) -- Ji Seong-ho , a North Korean defector who was elected to South Korea 's parliament last year , introduced a bill Friday that would provide financial compensation to victims of human rights abuses in North Korea .
`` Countless cases of severe human rights violations by the North Korean regime are still ongoing , '' Ji said at a news conference held via Zoom .
`` That 's why we need the special act on the compensation for North Korean human rights violations . ''
According to the bill , the South pay defectors , drawing resources from the seizure of North Korean assets such as vessels that enter South Korean territory .
The bill would also help to redress past injustices and `` be useful for our future reunification process and to inform our society of the reality of the human rights violation in North Korea , '' Ji said .
The defector-turned-politician lost an arm and a leg at age 13 after being hit by a train in North Korea while attempting to steal coal to sell for food .
Ji managed to and later became an activist , rising to international fame when he was invited to the 2018 State of the Union address by then-U.S. President Donald Trump .
He ran for a seat in South Korea 's National Assembly and was elected in April 2020 .
Ji was joined at the news conference by others who have sought legal remedy against North Korea , including Cindy Warmbier , the mother of Otto Warmbier , an American college student who was arrested in North Korea for allegedly stealing a propaganda poster in 2016 .
a vegetative state and died six days after returning home .
In 2018 , the Warmbiers won a $ 500 million judgment in U.S. federal court against North Korea , which held the country accountable for the mistreatment and death of the University of Virginia student .
The court last year ordered that information on $ 23 million in frozen North Korean funds deposited at three U.S. banks be disclosed to the Warmbiers in their attempt to collect on the judgment .
`` I support you in any way I can help from said .
`` I 'll be there with you 100 % to bring legal action against North Korea . ''
Also joining the press conference was Eiko Kawasaki , a Korean born in Japan who voluntarily moved to North Korea in 1960 and managed to escape in 2003 .
She has filed a lawsuit in Japan to hold Pyongyang responsible for the human rights violations that more than 90,000 Japanese who repatriated to North Korea suffered .
`` Kim Il Sung lured us and deceived us that North Korea is a paradise , founder , explaining that as a Korean in Japan she faced heavy discrimination in the post-war era .
`` There are many victims from that case , and we wanted to pursue legal responsibility of North Korea . ''
The South Korean government has been seeking to improve relations with North Korea through greater engagement and economic cooperation , and the likelihood of Ji 's bill being passed would appear remote .
`` I 'm not sure this bill will gain much political traction , '' said Ethan Hee-Seok Shin , a legal , a Seoul-based human rights NGO .
`` It 's a nice idea for a public debate , but at the end of the day , I do n't think this will be something that can actually be realized . ''
Seizing sufficient assets from North Korea for compensation would be highly unlikely , Shin said , meaning that any funding for the bill would have to come from the South Korean taxpayers .
The resettlement aid and welfare assistance that South Korea already provides to roughly 35,000 North Korean defectors is a The common perception here is that South Korea is being generous to actually accommodate defectors , '' he said .
`` On top of that , to ask for additional compensation for the kinds of human rights violations that they 've suffered in North Korea -- it 's not going to gain a lot of public support . ''
On Friday , Ji recognized the challenges in turning his bill into law but said that it was important to keep the North Korean human rights issue on the public agenda .
`` It to be passed , but I want to take this opportunity to tell South Korean society and the international community of the severe situation suffered by North Korean people , '' Ji said .
A 2014 Commission of Inquiry report by the United Nations documented crimes against humanity in North Korea , including torture , rape , execution , deliberate starvation and forced labor that were `` without parallel in the contemporary world . ''
A March report by the U.N. special rapporteur on human rights in North Korea cited `` the urgent justice and accountability for such crimes '' and recommended a referral to the International Criminal Court .
`` In North Korea , those victims did not have any power , '' Ji said .
`` Outside of North Korea they can ask for compensation .
All the defectors who suffered trauma just by living in North Korea should be compensated . ''