Feb. 25 ( UPI ) -- Jennifer Granholm took the oath of office Thursday to become President Joe Biden 's energy secretary .
Vice President Kamala Harris conducted the swearing-in ceremony hours after the Senate voted 64-35 in favor of her confirmation , the roll call shows .
`` My sincere thanks to the Senate for your confidence in me , '' Granholm tweeted .
`` I 'm obsessed with creating good-paying clean energy jobs in all corners of America in service of addressing our climate crisis .
I 'm impatient for results .
Now let 's get to work Michigan governor in 2002 , and was re-elected in 2006 with the largest number of votes case for governor in the state , according to her biography on the state 's official website .
She told the panel during her confirmation hearing on Capitol Hill that she expects technology products that reduce carbon emissions to be a $ 23 trillion global market by 2030 .
During the hearing , Granholm also addressed concerns about people working in the fossil fuel industry .
She said that Joe Biden 's goal of achieving net-zero carbon carbon capture , utilization and storage technologies used as a tool to cut emissions without cutting jobs .
`` I think we must use those technologies to keep people employed and to clean up and remain energy independent , '' she said at the hearing .
As governor , Granholm 's economic platform included `` aggressive measures to grow a new alternative energy sector , '' to turn `` Michigan 's rustbelt image to a greenbelt reality , '' her biography states .
She saw electric vehicles as a way to diversify and while aiding Michigan through auto industry crisis caused by global shift in manufacturing jobs to low-wage countries .
Prior to serving as governor , Granholm was the state 's first female attorney general .
Granholm was previously considered as candidate for energy secretary if Hillary Clinton had won in 2016 .
Biden tapped Granholm for the post in December .
`` I believe that I was nominated by the president because I am obsessed with creating good paying jobs in America , '' Granholm told lawmakers at her confirmation hearing .
`` Having automotive industry was on its knees , I understand what it 's like in the eyes of men and women who have lost jobs through no fault of their own . ''
Granholm will leave a position as an analyst for CNN to take the Energy Department position .
She also stepped down from a position as an adjunct professor at the University of California , Berkeley law school , and said she would divest from assets she holds in energy companies .