Feb. 15 ( UPI ) -- Twenty-three time Grand Slam champion Serena Williams leads a trio of American female tennis players who each are one win away from clinching a spot in the semifinals at the 2021 Australian Open .
Williams entered the tournament as one of the favorites to advance in Melbourne .
No .
24 Jennifer Brady and No .
61 Jessica Pegula never advanced to the quarterfinals at the Grand Slam and were not expected to be contenders -- but they are .
`` We have all really pushed each other over the past year , '' we have n't said it to each other , but I think we all can feel it .
`` We are all pushing each other to get to that next level . ''
Pegula battles Brady in a quarterfinal match Wednesday , which ensures that at least one American will advance to the semifinals .
Brady or Pegula will meet world No .
1 Ash Barty or Karolina Muchova at the semifinal stage of the first Grand Slam of 2021 .
The big-serving American trio have won a combined 24 of 26 sets Pegula have taken out world No .
5 Elina Svitolina , No .
7 Aryna Sabalenka and No .
13 Victoria Azarenka en route to the quarterfinals .
`` We are all pretty similar , '' said Pegula , the daughter of Buffalo Bills owners Terry and Kim Pegula .
`` We all hit pretty big and are always looking for a forehand shot .
`` [ Williams and Brady ] both serve really well and I 've gotten better .
It 's pretty awesome to see us in the quarterfinals . ''
experience of the three Americans , but she also has the toughest quarterfinal matchup .
The eight-time Australian Open champion takes on Simona Halep on Tuesday .
Williams is favored to win the match , despite her lower world ranking .
She is 9-2 in career matches against Halep .
Williams has a 3-1 record against Halep in Grand Slams , but lost to the Romanian in their last matchup , the 2019 Wimbledon final .
`` It 's the quarterfinal of a Grand Slam and I 've been here more times than told reporters Sunday .
`` That 's the right attitude for me to have . ''
Williams ripped through her first three matches , with straight sets victories over Laura Siegemund , Nina Stojanovic and Anastasia Potapova .
She then knocked out Sabalenka in three sets to advance to the quarterfinals .
Brady , 25 , has yet to drop a set through her four matches .
She started the tournament with a 6-1 , 6-3 win over Aliona Bolsova in 59 minutes .
She also dispatched of fellow American Madison Brengle in then beat Kaja Juvan and Donna Vekic to advance to the quarterfinals .
Pegula , 26 , upset Azarenka -- a two-time Australian Open champion and 2020 U.S. Open runner-up -- in her first round match .
She followed that straight-sets win a victory over Samantha Stosur .
Pegula then beat Kristina Mladenovic 6-2 , 6-1 in her third-round match .
She scored another upset over Svitolina in the fourth round to advance to the matchup with Brady .
Pegula beat Brady in straight sets in the first round of the 2020 Cincinnati but Brady is favored to win Wednesday 's match over her American foe .
Romania , Japan , Taiwan , Australia and the Czech Republic also are represented in 2021 Australian Open women 's singles quarterfinals .
At least two American women have now advanced to the quarterfinal stage of three consecutive Grand Slams .
At least two American women also have advanced to the singles quarterfinals in six of the last seven Grand Slams .
Brady and Pegula have sent text messages to each other throughout the week .
They wished each .
`` We both know each other so well , '' Brady told reporters on Monday .
`` I 'm really looking forward to it .
I think everyone back home in America will be watch .
`` It 's a guarantee to have an American in the semifinals . ''
American tennis fans can watch Williams face Halep and Pegula battle Brady on Tuesday on Tennis Channel and ESPN2 .
Australian Open action airs from 6 to 9 p.m. EST on Tennis Channel and from 9 p.m. to 7 a.m. on ESPN at 3 a.m. EST Tuesday on ESPN2 Jennifer Brady vs. Jessica Pegula at 7 p.m. EST Tuesday on Tennis Channel