Jan. 30 ( UPI ) -- Standup comedian and actor Jerrod Carmichael made his directorial debut with On the Count of Three , which premiered at the Sundance Film Festival on Friday .
Carmichael said the dark comedy about two friends making a suicide pact fit his aesthetic of using comedy to address serious issues .
`` It just felt like a natural progression of truth , '' Carmichael said at a Zoom Q & A following the premiere .
`` I ca n't see myself doing anything else . ''
In the film , Val ( Carmichael ) breaks out of a mental health hospital where he is being observed after a suicide attempt .
Val proposes they kill themselves together , but Kevin suggests they wait until the end of the day and resolve some of their frustrations with life .
Directing his own performance , Carmichael said he worried he would not be able to balance the film 's comedy and drama .
During their presumed final day , Val confronts his father ( J.B. Smoove ) and tries to leave his pregnant girlfriend ( Tiffany Haddish ) with financial ( Henry Winkler ) who abused him as a child .
For the dramatic roles , Carmichael said he cast comedians he felt were actors first .
He believes their success in comedy comes out of their inherent honesty .
Haddish 's `` eyes are incredible on camera when she 's just being honest , '' Carmichael said .
`` J.B. is such a father .
His tone and his energy is just so fatherly , it just works . ''
Haddish appeared on Carmichael 's sitcom , The Carmichael Show , which The show dealt with hot button topics such as gun control , consent , religion and pornography each week .
Carmichael said he used the family comedy format as a `` Trojan Horse '' to carry the issues he wanted to discuss .
With On the Count of Three , he hopes the buddy comedy will encourage discussions around mental health and suicide .
`` I 've always been infatuated with getting more complicated thoughts to broader audiences , '' Carmichael said .
The script for On the Count of Three was written and Ryan Welch .
Welch and Katcher also write for the series Ramy , which Carmichael produces .
`` Our sense of humor and our sense of drama , I think , are in tune , '' Carmichael said .
As the director , Carmichael designed the look of the film to complement his blend of tones .
He noticed similarities between the interior design of diners and the set design of daytime television shows .
Both , he said , present a certain optimism that is ultimately superficial .
`` I like colors provide , things that are trying to force you to be happy if you 're in a state of unhappiness , '' Carmichael said .
`` A morbid outlook that 's surrounded by color , that was the goal . ''
A second screening of On the Count of Three is available at the Sundance Film Festival through Tuesday .