Jan. 16 ( UPI ) -- A federal judge in Washington , D.C. , has blocked a court order releasing an Arkansas man accused of entering House Speaker Nancy Pelosi 's office and stealing her mail during last week 's attack on the U.S. Capitol .
U.S. District Judge Beryl Howell on Friday issued a stay blocking a release order by U.S. Magistrate Judge Erin Weidemann in the Western District of Arkansas .
The jostling over Richard Barnett 's detainment came after a 5-hour hearing Friday .
Federal prosecutors sought to keep the 60-year-old in custody pending a potential trial after the Capitol attack by turning off GPS on his cellphone and paying only in cash .
Howell also ordered that Barnett be transferred to a jail in Washington , where he 'll have a new bail hearing next week .
Weidemann originally ordered that Barnett be released to home confinement on $ 5,000 bond .
She barred him from using the Internet and interacting with anyone else who took part in the Jan. 6 siege on the Capitol .
Barnett was perhaps one of the most visible participants in the insurrection , Pelosi 's office with his feet up on her desk .
Another video showed Barnett boasting about taking an envelope from her office .
The FBI said officials found 11 Molotov cocktails and a military-style weapon in Barnett 's truck .
He faces charges of knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful entry ; violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds ; and theft of public money , property or records .
Also Friday , a federal judge in Arizona ordered Jacob Chansley -- the so-called `` until his trial because he poses a flight risk and a danger to the community .
Federal prosecutors accused Chansley of attempting to `` violently overthrow '' the U.S. government during the Capitol attack .
Chansley , who was easily identified in videos and photos from the riots due to his headwear , face paint , tattoos and an American flag mounted onto a spear , faces charges of knowingly entering or remaining in a restricted building or grounds without lawful authority and violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds .
He Barnett and Chansley are among dozens of people charged in connection with the Jan. 6 attack on the Capitol .
The FBI said it expects to charge hundreds .