May 18 ( UPI ) -- Hundreds of people gathered outside of the Israeli Embassy in Washington , D.C. , Tuesday to protest recent attacks on Palestinians in fighting that has killed more than 200 people .
The demonstrators shouted , '' Free , Free , Palestine '' and other chants criticizing Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in the latest demonstration as nations throughout the world called for a cease-fire in the region .
The Gaza Health Ministry said Tuesday that at least 212 Palestinians , including 61 children , have been killed by Israeli airstrikes , while another 16 Rockets fired by the Palestinian militant group Hamas have killed 12 people , including two children , in Israel .
Tuesday 's demonstration follows rallies at the embassy and the National Mall over the weekend , as Gaza experienced its bloodiest day in the latest outbreak of violence that began last week , with 50 people killed on Sunday .
Similar rallies were held in major U.S. cities throughout the weekend including New York City , Philadelphia , Chicago , Dallas , New Orleans and Sacramento , Calif. Additionally , Palestinians in Israel participated in a general work strike on Tuesday as they demonstrated in central squares and waved Palestinian flags .
`` It reflects how Palestinians now have a unified struggle against the same system of apartheid , '' Mustafa Barghouti , an independent politician attending a rally in central Ramallah , told The New York Times .
On Tuesday , 26 of the European Union 's 27 member states called for a cease-fire in the conflict and condemned Hamas ' rocket attacks on Israel , saying the group should defend itself in a `` the United Nations failed to produce a resolution on the conflict for the third time , as China blamed the United States for keeping the foreign ministers from being able `` to speak with one voice . ''
U.S. President Joe Biden on Monday said he supports a cease-fire as his administration comes under increasing pressure to condemn Israel 's airstrikes on the Gaza Strip after previously defending the nation 's right to defend itself .