MOSCOW ( Reuters ) - President Vladimir Putin said on Thursday that he and U.S. President Joe Biden should hold live online talks in coming days after Biden said he thought the Russian leader was a killer and diplomatic ties sank to a new post-Cold War low .
Putin , speaking on television , cited a Russian children 's playground chant to scathingly respond to Biden 's accusation with the comment that `` he who said it , did it.
” In an ABC News interview broadcast on Wednesday that prompted Russia to recall its Washington ambassador for consultations , asked if he believed Putin was a killer .
Biden was quick to extend a nuclear arms pact with Russia after he took office .
But his administration has said it will take a tougher line with Moscow than Washington did during Donald Trump 's term in office , and engage only when there is a tangible benefit for the United States .
Putin said he had last spoken to Biden by phone at the U.S. president 's request and that he now proposed they had another conversation , on Friday or Monday broadcast live .
`` I want to offer President Biden that we continue our discussion , but on the condition that we do it live , online , without any delays , '' Putin said , when asked in a television interview about Biden 's comments .
The two leaders last spoke by telephone on Jan. 26 days after Biden took office .
White House spokeswoman Jen Psaki on Thursday said Biden had no regrets about calling Putin a killer and swatted away a question about Putin 's request for an immediate call the president already had a conversation with President Putin , even as there are more world leaders that he has not yet engaged with , '' Psaki said .
`` The president will of course be in Georgia tomorrow and quite busy . ''
Putin said he was ready to discuss Russia 's relations with the United States and other issues such as regional conflicts `` tomorrow or , say , on Monday , '' adding that he would be having a weekend break in a remote part of Russia .
'WE ARE also described Putin as having no soul , and said he would pay a price for alleged Russian meddling in the November 2020 U.S. presidential election , something the Kremlin denies .
Russia is preparing to be hit by a new round of U.S. sanctions in the coming days over the U.S. allegations of election interference and hacking .
U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said on Thursday that Washington was tracking efforts to complete Russia 's Nord Stream 2 natural gas pipeline and evaluating information on entities that appear to be involved Biden 's interview , Moscow recalled its ambassador to the United States for consultations .
Suggesting Biden was hypocritical in his remarks , Putin said that every state had to contend with `` bloody events '' and added Biden was accusing the Russian leader of something he was guilty of himself .
`` I remember in my childhood , when we argued in the courtyard with each other we used to say : he who said it , did it .
And that 's not a coincidence , not just a children 's here is very deep , '' Putin said .
`` We always see our own traits in other people and think they are like how we really are .
And as a result we assess ( a person 's ) activities and give assessments , '' he said .
Putin then spoke about U.S. history , talking about what he called the genocide of Native Americans , slavery and the ill treatment of Black people , and the U.S. dropping atomic bombs on Japan at the end of World War Two .
`` , but we are different , we have a different genetic and cultural-moral code , '' said Putin .
`` We will work with them in the areas in which we are interested on terms that we consider advantageous to ourselves .
They will have to deal with that regardless of all their attempts to stop us developing , regardless of the sanctions , and regardless of the insults '' .