WASHINGTON ( Reuters ) - Justice Stephen Breyer , the U.S. Supreme Court 's oldest member , remained mum about his future on Thursday after it issued the final two rulings of a nine-month term during which some liberal activists had urged him to retire .
Breyer , 82 , has served on the court for 27 years .
These activists want him to step aside to give Democratic President Joe Biden the chance name a replacement who could serve in the lifetime post for decades .
The court has a 6-3 conservative majority after Biden 's Republican predecessor Donald during his four years in office , most recently appointing Amy Coney Barrett last year after the death of liberal Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg .
Breyer , Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan make up the court 's liberal bloc .
Breyer has given no public indication that he plans to retire .
In an April speech he said it was important for the justices not to appear driven by political considerations .
Justices often announce their retirements soon after the court issues its final rulings .
Biden during the 2020 presidential election campaign fill any Supreme Court vacancy , which would be a historic first .
Democrats hold a slim majority in the U.S. Senate , which under the U.S. Constitution has the power to confirm Supreme Court nominees .
Some liberal activists are concerned that if Breyer does not retire while the Democrats control the Senate , Republicans could block confirmation of his successor or a future Republican president could name his replacement and shift the court even further to the right .
Breyer authored the court 's major June 17 ruling rejecting a Republican landmark healthcare law formally called the Affordable Care Act for the third time since its 2010 enactment .
He also wrote the June 23 ruling in a major free speech case that sided with a cheerleader who had been punished by her high school for a profanity-laced social media post .
In the past , Breyer has written important rulings upholding abortion rights and has become a persistent critic of the death penalty .