Texas Democratic lawmakers who fled the state to block Republicans from passing a voting bill started to head home this weekend , securing a legal win on Monday that may allow them to return to the state and still obstruct legislation .
A group of Democratic lawmakers secured a temporary restraining order on Sunday , blocking Republicans from having them forcibly returned to the House chamber .
“ Does the government have the power to arrest its political opponents — that ’ s what it boils down to , ” state Rep. Trey Martinez Fischer told NBC News .
The Brad Urrutia , a Democrat , prevents the Texas Democrats from being arrested , detained , or confined in any way for two weeks .
Republicans will have a chance to fight the order in a hearing scheduled for August 20 .
Of the 57 Democrats who traveled to Washington and used their physical absence to paralyze the state Legislature , about 26 remain , state Rep. Ron Reynolds told NBC News on Sunday night — not enough to deny Republicans of their needed quorum in Austin .
The remaining lawmakers plan to even as the House has already adjourned for recess and the Senate is expected to follow them home within days .
On Monday , some members met virtually with Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez , D-N.Y. , Martinez Fischer said .
The rest — who had been in D.C. for nearly a month — quietly left on commercial flights or by car , a source familiar with the matter said .
Their return might have made make it possible for Republicans to move ahead this week — but the majority party still needed to find the chamber since the special session that began on Saturday lacked enough members for a quorum .
Republicans have majority control of the state House and Senate , as well as the governor 's office .
The Democrats only means of blocking legislation is through delay tactics or obstruction — namely , refusing to attend sessions to prevent Republicans from having a quorum .
Democrats who have returned to Texas but do not voluntarily appear in the House chamber risk arrest .
Texas law allows state legislators to compel missing members to appear to arrest them .
Democratic lawmakers said they plan to fight in court any effort to compel them to return to the Capitol .
“ We don ’ t believe there ’ s any legal authority for DPS [ Department of Public Safety ] or other legal offices to serve any type of warrant or arrest in any way , ” said state Rep. Jasmine Crockett , a Democrat , told NBC News .
The caucus ' first attempt to block arrests faltered over the weekend .
On Friday , The Texas Tribune court by 22 of the Texas Democrats against Gov .
Greg Abbott and other Republicans was soon disavowed by two members .
A source familiar with the matter said the filing was a draft submitted in error .
The legal challenges are the latest twist after 50 Democratic members of the state House of Representatives fled to Washington on July 12 on private chartered jets , vowing to use their time waiting out the clock on the Texas special legislative session to fight for federal voting legislation .
They enjoyed days of media , as well as Vice President Kamala Harris , before six fully vaccinated members tested positive for Covid-19 .
The breakthrough infections spread to at least one aide to the Texas caucus , an aide to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and a White House staffer , while forcing the Texas Democrats to host much of their advocacy events and meetings on Zoom .
Congress soon turned its attention to hammering out a bipartisan infrastructure deal , leaving many of the Texas Democrats frustrated at the lack of federal lawmaking on their issue .
meeting with a single Republican member of Congress — the cohort that is holding up their legislation and would need to be persuaded .
The Texas Democrats drew more than 100 legislators from other states to a rally , but was overshadowed when it ended up taking place simultaneously with New York Gov .
Andrew Cuomo 's response to the allegations that he sexually harassed women while serving as governor .
While some Senate Democrats have said they want to push a voting bill ahead in the chamber , there ’ s no Republican support .
Still , the Texas Democrats argue they ’ ve kept the issue top of mind for a month .
“ There ’ s a lot of momentum that ’ s been really sparked by our quorum break , ” Reynolds said .
“ There has not been an idle day .
We ’ ve utilized every single day to make some progress .
”