LARAMIE , Wyo .
( Reuters ) - When lifelong Wyoming Republican Tage Benson and Democrat Chamois Andersen met for the first time at the Owl in the Attic antiques store in Laramie this past weekend , they quickly put their political differences aside .
Their home state 's embattled Republican congresswoman , Liz Cheney , needed to be supported , they agreed , for standing up to former President Donald Trump and contesting his false stolen-election claims .
“ This is where Democrats and Republicans can come together , ” said Anderson , 51 , a wildlife advocate who `` She is a hero , '' said Benson , 67 , who was working the store 's register .
He told Andersen his Democratic friends were talking about registering as Republicans to vote for Cheney in the party 's primary election next year .
`` I 'm going to talk everyone into that , '' he said .
Such a rare bipartisan show of support constitutes a potential lifeline as the third-term congresswoman and daughter of former Vice President Dick Cheney fights for political survival .
Her fellow Republicans in Washington are removing Cheney as the third-ranking Republican in the House of Representatives , where the party is the minority .
Kevin McCarthy , the chamber 's top Republican who has sought to placate Trump , has cast her ouster from the party leadership as necessary to unify Republicans and reclaim control of the House in 2022 .
Cheney is also in trouble in her home state of Wyoming , where Trump and Cheney both won with 70 % of the vote in November .
The majority is furious with her vote to impeach Trump riot at the U.S. Capitol and her repeated criticism of his claims the election was rigged , according to three dozen voters Reuters interviewed in conservative towns of Gillette and Douglas , more moderate Laramie and the state capitol of Cheyenne over five days this month .
Mike Gapter , owner of a bedding and hot tub store in Laramie , said the 2020 ballot was his final vote for Cheney .
`` She 's proved herself unworthy , '' he said .
But an unlikely coalition of traditional Republicans , independents and voters interviewed -- said they would likely vote for her , a floor of support that could keep her hopes alive for re-election .
It is too early for opinion polls about the primary .
Wyoming law allows residents of any affiliation to vote in the Republican primary if they switch their registration on election day , potentially helping Cheney .
Cheney , 54 , who has not said whether she will run for a fourth term , also could prove to be a formidable target .
She raised $ 1.54 million in quarter since she was elected in 2016 .
In pushing to oust her , House Republicans made clear they see their fortunes tied to Trump and his fervent supporters .
But his influence could alienate the independent , suburban and women voters need to take back control of the House , said Alex Conant , a former campaign aide to Republican Senator Marco Rubio of Florida .
`` House Republicans want to be associated with Trump , and they 're taking a risk that it might turn off some independent voters , '' the most popular figure in the Republican Party ; but polls show voters are split over what to do with critics like Cheney , while a sizeable minority of Republicans appear ready to move on from him .
In a May 7-10 Reuters/Ipsos opinion poll , six out of 10 Republicans said their party would be stronger `` when it embraces supporters and critics of Donald Trump , '' while four in 10 think it better that the party `` purges leaders who are critical '' of him .
The poll also found in `` joining a conservative political party that is run by former Republican leaders who have been critical of Donald Trump.
” Barbara Comstock , a former Republican congresswoman who lost her suburban Virginia seat in 2018 amid a surge of anti-Trump sentiment , said that ousting Cheney could prove dangerous for Republican incumbents from deeply conservative districts too , who could see their fealty to Trump challenged by an energized crop of Trump-inspired primary candidates .
“ What they ’ re going to open the door to is a situation where nobody said .
“ It ’ s a problem for everybody.
” Asked about the intraparty fight over Cheney and its impact on House races , Tom Emmer , chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee , said he is `` solely focused on retaking the majority . ''
`` House Republicans are united in that effort , '' he said .
Sparsely populated Wyoming is one of the most conservative states in the country , where Republicans outnumber Democrats by more than 3 to 1 .
In her first run for Congress in primary field with about 40 % of the vote – although fewer than 90,000 people voted in total .
She received more than 70 % of the vote in successive primaries and has won general elections just as easily .
Cheney declined an interview request .
While she has yet to announce her plans , six Republicans have already announced they will run against her .
Anger toward Cheney was evident at a coffee shop called `` The Local '' in Gillette , a town of 32,000 people and at the center of produce about 40 percent of the coal output in the United States .
All five men at a table in the back of The Local said they could not support Cheney after she went against Trump .
`` We are very loyal people here , '' said Paul Roberts , 47 .
`` We did n't elect her to vote her conscience . ''
If she decides tor run , Cheney could potentially outperform a fragmented field of challengers - although Trump had recently said he would endorse a candidate soon .
There the state of switching sides in primaries to help defeat more conservative candidates , political observers say , including in 2018 to bolster Republican Governor Mark Gordon .
Jenasie Kendall , a 23-year-old independent who works at a wine shop in Cheyenne , said she would consider registering as a Republican to help Cheney win .
`` I respect what she is trying to do , 100 percent , '' said Kendall .
Brendan Buck , once a top aide to former House Speaker Paul Ryan , was less sanguine about her future that reflects the base , and it ’ s a base that wants what Donald Trump is selling . ''