Cindy McCain watches The View to support co-host and daughter Meghan McCain but admits that on-air bickering makes her `` cringe . ''
This week , the 67-year-old widow of Senator John McCain and the mother of Meghan , who has co-hosted the popular daytime series since 2019 , appeared on the SiriusXM show Radio Andy , where she opened up about show 's debates that often turn contentious .
Comparing the spirit of The View to the Real Housewives franchise , host Andy Cohen asked Cindy , `` Did you know that Meghan was such a tough cookie and it with the other women .
And what is your reaction when you 're watching ? ''
`` Well , ever since she was very little , we 've called her John McCain in a dress , '' answered Cindy .
`` Because she was always fighting , she was always questioning and talking and making sure , not only did she understand what was going on , but could we change it , kind of thing . ''
`` She 's always been that way , '' added the proud mama .
within the family .
And I think she 's doing a great job — she stands up for what she believes in and that 's all you can ask for .
And she 's also really smart , so I appreciate what she does .
I do n't always agree with her but I do appreciate it . ''
Cohen asked Cindy about a Monday episode during which Meghan got irritated when co-host Whoopi Goldberg cut to a commercial break while she spoke during a “ Hot Topics ” segment .
The women who has a history of promoting conspiracy theories , including about QAnon and 9/11 , and has been removed from House Committee assignments for her views .
Last week , Greene compared House Speaker Nancy Pelosi 's mask rule on the chamber floor to Nazi control over Jewish people during the Holocaust .
`` I ca n't stand Marjorie Taylor Greene , I think she 's a crazy person , '' said Meghan , pointing out that Greene had been stripped of legislative power .
`` …I 'm confused what has risen this because last week , as I brought up on Friday , there 's a huge rise in anti-semitic attacks against Jewish people globally and in our own country '' while citing a long list of examples .
`` I would love if the energy that is being put on one crazy woman in Congress — and by the way , if she is the face of the Republicans , then the Squad is the face of the Democrats , '' said Meghan referring to Reps. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York , Ilhan Omar and Rashida Tlaib of Michigan .
But when Goldberg tried cutting to break , promising Meghan that she could continue in moments , Meghan said , `` Why are you cutting me off ? ''
Goldberg replied , `` I 'm cutting you off because we have to go , Meghan ! ''
Cohen asked Cindy how she felt when watching that particular moment .
`` As a mom — I just saw you kind of cringe a little bit when I brought it up .
Did that upset you to watch ?
a mom ― [ you ] teach your children to be polite and be nice to other people and all that kind of stuff , and it does make me cringe a little bit , '' she answered .
`` But again , it 's her job and it 's what she does and it 's Whoopi 's job to keep the peace so I understand everything that 's going on .
But as a mom , yeah , it does bother me a little bit . ''
• None Jillian Michaels says 's weight but argues obesity is 'unhealthy' • None 'Friends ' EP says cast would n't be all-white today , but has no regrets : 'What can I say ?
I wish Lisa was Black ? '
• None Kim Kardashian denies she got COVID from private island birthday party