ROME ( AP ) — President Joe Biden reflected on his relationship with Pope Francis on Sunday as he neared the end of his visit to Rome , saying the pontiff has brought him “ great solace ” since the death of his son Beau more than six years ago .
Biden was asked about his private meeting Friday with the pope during his closing news conference at the Group of 20 summit .
Speaking with emotion , the president harked back to his September 2015 meeting with the pontiff when the leader of the Roman Catholic Church was visiting a man who has a great empathy , '' Biden said .
“ He is a man who understands that part of his Christianity is to reach out and forgive .
And so I just find my relationship with him one that I personally take great solace in . ''
Biden , a practicing Catholic , was vice president at the time of Francis ' visit to the U.S .
He was asked by President Barack Obama to accompany Francis as the pontiff traveled to Philadelphia .
Biden said the “ wounds were Beau , the former Delaware attorney general who had died from brain cancer months before the pope 's U.S. visit .
Before departing Philadelphia , Francis asked to meet privately with Biden and his family .
The president , who has previously spoken about the meeting , seemed to choke back tears Sunday as he recalled how much Francis knew about his late son .
“ He did n't just generically talk about him , '' Biden said of the meeting , which he said lasted 10 or 15 minutes in a Philadelphia a man he was .
And it had such a cathartic impact on his children , and my wife , our family , that it meant a great deal . ''
Biden said after his meeting with the pope on Friday that Francis told him he should continue to take Holy Communion .
Some conservative U.S. church leaders say he should be barred from taking the sacrament because of his support for abortion rights .
The president on Sunday sidestepped questions about the Holy Communion controversy , and instead offered a lengthy answer his relationship with Francis .
“ He is everything I learned about Catholicism from the time I was a kid going from grade school through high school , '' Biden said .
“ I have great respect for people who have other religious views , but he is just a fine , decent , honorable man .
We keep in touch . ''