There ’ s unlikely to be any formal paid sick leave in the latest COVID-19 rescue bill unless at least 10 Republicans sign on to it , despite the policy ’ s proven effectiveness in slowing the spread of the coronavirus , according to three congressional aides who spoke to HuffPost .
Without Republican support , Democrats will also likely have to leave out paid family and medical leave , illustrating the limitations of Democrats ’ razor-thin majority in such a deeply partisan Congress .
Democratic aides said they didn ’ t see a way to include a requirement that of budget reconciliation , a legislative process Democrats are pursuing to pass legislation in the Senate with only a simple majority .
“ We knew a mandate would never survive [ under Senate rules ] , ” said one Democratic House aide .
“ It ’ s not like we didn ’ t expect it.
” At best , the package would include tax credits for small businesses that opt to offer employees paid time off .
A more substantive leave policy that passed with bipartisan support back in March 2020 did require It expired at the end of last year .
“ It is what it is , ” said a Democratic Senate aide , who wasn ’ t authorized to speak publicly about the state of negotiations .
The aide said that it was still a good sign that tax credits will be included in the package , calling that “ momentum.
” Though the details are still being worked out , the tax credits would likely be available only to small companies .
These businesses would get some money back for giving workers issues .
But it ’ s not clear if companies would even be required to let workers know such leave is available to them .
Most progressives don ’ t see these tax breaks as anything close to legitimate paid sick leave , but simply an extension of the status quo .
The U.S. , unlike most other developed nations , does not mandate paid sick leave , so few companies offer it — and typically only to fairly well-paid white collar workers .
Congress ’ s failure to include paid sick leave .
Paid sick and family leave is needed for a raft of critical reasons : First , it would allow workers exposed to COVID-19 to stay home to quarantine or recover from their illness , thus preventing the spread of the disease .
The leave could also give workers time off to go get vaccinated .
And longer-term family leave is critical to parents who need to be home with children because of school and day care closures .
Already millions of women were pushed out of the labor force to deal with by 10 Republican senators last week , countering Biden ’ s opening proposal , entirely omitted the policy .
“ It remains deeply disappointing and utterly incomprehensible that Democrats and Republicans can ’ t come together around a public health policy that would prevent COVID cases , help the vaccination process and help keep people in the workforce , ” said Vicki Shabo , a paid-leave specialist at the New America think tank .
“ Especially women and people of color.
” With 50 seats in the Senate , and Vice President Kamala can pass their relief bill without any Republican support through budget reconciliation — a process they started this week .
Otherwise , any bill passed by the Senate needs 60 votes to overcome a filibuster .
But while bypassing Republicans means Democrats can get a lot of things their colleagues across the aisle have balked at , reconciliation comes with some tradeoffs .
Reconciliation bills must directly impact federal spending or revenue , and they also can not raise the deficit beyond a certain threshold over the next 10 years .
In this figure at $ 1.9 trillion .
A blanket paid leave requirement , or mandate , doesn ’ t directly impact the budget , and therefore would run afoul of Senate rules .
Democrats haven ’ t yet decided whether they will include the mandate in their final bill text and simply subject it to an objection from a Republican colleague on the Senate floor .
There are some workarounds .
Democrats are pursuing one in this emergency relief push , structuring a paid-leave tax credit for some businesses similar to one that passed event the mandate can ’ t survive through reconciliation , Democrats are budgeting to continue the voluntary credits from the December deal , ” a Democratic aide familiar with the talks said .
But without requiring companies to actually give employees paid time off , these tax credits just don ’ t amount to much .
Last year , Congress did have bipartisan momentum around leave , and was able to mandate that some businesses offer paid sick leave to deal with the coronavirus .
It was far from an ideal policy .
out a huge exemption for big businesses .
Those with more than 500 employees didn ’ t have to offer paid sick leave at all ; that meant essential workers at places like Amazon and Walmart were entirely left out .
There were also loopholes involving health care workers .
All told , as many as 106 million workers were excluded , according to one estimate .
There haven ’ t been many studies detailing the impact of those carveouts .
However , we do know that millions of women were forced out part because they needed to be home with children due to school closures .
A paid leave policy could have kept those women attached to their jobs — allowing them to take time off to support children home from school , instead of abandoning work wholesale .
But even those restrictions were not enough for Republicans .
As the leave was expiring in December , then-Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell ( R-Ky. ) and Sen. Lamar Alexander ( R-Tenn. ) blocked an extension of the leave in negotiations .
Along with most Republican idea of forcing businesses to provide the time off .
At the time , now-incoming chair of the Senate Health , Education , Labor and Pensions Committee , Sen. Patty Murray ( D-Wash. ) , said she would fight for the policy once Biden was inaugurated .
But it seems Democrats will likely have to kick this fight down the road once again .
Murray plans to focus on the need for paid leave at a committee hearing to consider the nomination of Marty Walsh for labor secretary on Thursday , an aide out of step with even the business world on this one .
Just this week , the U.S. Chamber of Commerce , a conservative-leaning lobbying group , endorsed the idea of paid sick and family leave as it was structured in the expired legislation .
The leave that passed last year was effective in slowing the spread of disease , according to a study in the journal Health Affairs .
Several small-business owners also told HuffPost last year that the policy was a lifesaver , helping them hold on to employees and stay Biden White House had wanted to expand and extend paid sick and family leave in this latest rescue package , proposing a policy that would cover all workers and increase the benefit provided to them .
Three congressional Democratic aides said they hoped it could be passed with Congress ’ s next big legislative package — what the Biden ’ s administration is teasing as a jobs and infrastructure plan that would go beyond emergency COVID-19 relief .
But it ’ s not entirely clear that Republicans will be on board for that are forced once again to resort to another budget reconciliation package to pass their agenda , they will hit the same snag with paid leave ― though congressional aides said they might be able to figure out a workaround with a longer lead time .
Shabo , from New America , is convinced it is possible to pass paid leave through the reconciliation process if lawmakers change the way the policy is structured .
“ Not only is it technically doable within the Senate ’ s reconciliation rules , it would be a , ” she said .
“ How can you ‘ build back better ’ after a pandemic like this ― and after the exacerbation of disparities that already existed before by gender , race and job ― without creating a national paid leave program , along with child care and long-term care supports ?
” Democrats are facing similar complications around their desire to raise the minimum wage ; it remains up for debate whether such a policy would significantly impact the federal budget in order to pass muster under Senate rules .
D-N.Y. ) and Rep. Rosa DeLauro ( D-Conn. ) are soon expected to reintroduce their own permanent paid leave bill , the Family Act .
The hope is that the legislation , which is structured differently than the emergency leave provisions , will garner 60 votes in the Senate .
Democrats Take First Step To Pass COVID-19 Relief With Or Without Republicans Congress Could Finally Make Life Better For Parents — If It Does n't Blow It Democrats Determined To Avoid Their Old Mistakes With Big COVID-19 Stimulus This article originally appeared on @