A California man who threatened dozens of people , including politicians , journalists and their families , who said that then-President Donald Trump lost the November election has been sentenced to three years , prosecutors said .
Robert Lemke , 36 , of Bay Point in the San Francisco Bay Area , was sentenced Monday by a federal judge Monday , the U.S. Attorney 's Office for the Southern District of New York said .
The targets included U.S. Rep. Hakeem Jeffries , D-N.Y. , whose brother was sent a text on Jan. 6 that read : “ Your brother with his lies and other words .
We are armed and nearby your house , ” according to court documents .
When Lemke was arrested , a criminal complaint did not name Jeffries , but the congressman has said he was targeted .
Two journalists for CNN were also threatened .
The network ’ s Brian Stelter said he spoke at Lemke ’ s sentencing and wrote about the experience Monday .
Stelter said that anchor Don Lemon told the judge , “ I am tired of looking over my shoulder '' and ‘ fake news ’ and even more horrendous names , ” including racial and anti-gay slurs .
Stelter said Lemon also rejected arguments that Lemke was misled by social media after Trump ’ s loss .
“ For people like him , it is never their fault , ” Lemon said , according to Stelter .
Lemke sent threats to about 50 people from November through early January , prosecutors said .
Some said `` Stop telling lies ; Biden did not win , he will not be president , '' according to a concerted campaign , sustained over more than two months , to terrify and intimidate dozens of journalists , members of Congress and their families in the wake of the 2020 U.S. presidential election.
” The threats contained personal information , including addresses and in some cases , photos of homes interiors , according to court documents .
Text messages were sent Jan. 6 during the riot at the U.S. Capitol by a pro-Trump mob .
One threat sent Jan. 9 read : “ You do understand not only your life , but `` We know everything.
” Lemke , who was arrested in late January , pleaded guilty to making threatening interstate communications in October .
His federal public defender did not immediately respond to a request for comment Monday night .
Lemke ’ s attorney wrote ahead of sentencing that Lemke was isolated and fell down a social media rabbit hole , where he ’ d been convinced the election was fraudulent and he lost sense of himself .
Lemke in a letter to the judge wrote that he was ashamed of his conduct lack of remorse .
They wrote in a sentencing memorandum that he wrote his mother on Dec. 1 that “ I ’ m the victim here , ” and that in November , he described himself as a “ political prisoner .
”