LONDON ( Reuters ) - Group of Seven leaders , who control a little under half of the world 's economy , on Friday sought to look beyond the COVID-19 pandemic towards rebuilding their battered economies with free trade and to countering China 's `` non-market oriented '' policies .
U.S. President Joe Biden and Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi debuted at the G7 virtual leaders ' meeting which was chaired by British Prime Minister Boris Johnson .
The leaders called for stronger defences against a future pandemic , including exploring a global health treaty , but the focus was same day that the United States rejoined the Paris climate agreement .
`` Jobs and growth is what we 're going to need after this pandemic , '' Johnson told the opening of the meeting .
An official communiques said the G7 would champion open economies , `` data free flow with trust '' and work on `` a modernised , freer and fairer rules-based multilateral trading system '' .
After Facebook cut news feeds in Australia , French President Emmanuel Macron raised the role social media platforms should have in preserving freedom , a French official said on Friday .
G7 leaders also supported the commitment of Japan to hold the Olympic and Paralympic Games Tokyo 2020 this summer .
In a clear reference to China , they said they `` will consult with each other on collective approaches to address non-market oriented policies and practices '' .
But the tone of the G7 was distinctly cooperative and collective - as Biden tried to project a message of re-engagement with the world and with global institutions after four years of Donald Trump 's `` America has killed 2.4 million people , tipped the global economy into its worst peacetime slump since the Great Depression and upended normal life for billions .
Even at the virtual top table of world politics , the `` mute curse '' , which has stilted video calls for millions of businesses and families over the past months of COVID-19 lockdown , struck .
As Johnson began the meeting , a German voice suddenly interrupted him .
`` Can you hear us Angela , '' Johnson quipped to German Chancellor Angela Merkel , chuckling mute . ''
Johnson also claimed that Biden had `` nicked '' - British slang for stolen - his slogan `` build back better '' , though Johnson said that he himself had probably stolen it from somewhere else .
Once the mute problems were over , leaders pledged billions of dollars to COVAX , a coronavirus vaccination programme for poorer countries .
`` COVID-19 shows that the world needs stronger defences against future risks to global health security , '' the G7 said .
`` We will continue to support our economies , sustainable , balanced and inclusive recovery . ''
Though Biden has cast China as the `` most serious competitor '' of the United States , China was mentioned only once in the communiques .
Johnson said the G7 - as `` like-minded liberal free-trading democracies '' - stood together on issues such as condemnation of the coup in Myanmar and the detention of Alexei Navalny in Russia .
The G7 of the United States , Japan , Germany , United Kingdom , France , Italy and Canada has a combined gross domestic a little less than half of the global economy .