CARBIS BAY , England — Joe Biden had many messages for U.S. allies during his first foreign trip as president .
But perhaps none were more pronounced than this : I ’ m not Donald Trump .
Biden ’ s predecessor spent four years disparaging world leaders — in public and on Twitter— accusing their countries of freeloading off the United States .
He pulled out of international agreements , refused to sign others and scoffed at the trans-Atlantic alliances that served as a bedrock of U.S. foreign policy in the post-WWII era .
Three years ago in Canada , of the world ’ s wealthiest and most powerful nations , a moment enshrined in a photo of him sitting with his arms crossed triumphantly as other leaders stood around him , either exasperated or appearing to implore him to act .
So many leaders at the latest G-7 meeting , including those from Germany , France and Canada , seemed simply eager to move past Trump this week ; so much so that they greeted Biden like an old friend even when he wasn ’ t .
As the world leaders walked summit began , French President Emmanuel Macron , who had never met Biden before , put his arm around him and the two walked arm and arm .
They engaged in a brief but animated conversation that included talking about ways to make democracies more effective for the middle class , one of Biden ’ s favorite topics .
“ Being able to meet Joe Biden is obviously important because he stands for the commitment to multilateralism , which we were missing in recent years.
” said German Chancellor Angela Merkel , one just after she arrived at the summit Friday .
Even British Prime Minister Boris Johnson , closer to Trump than any other G-7 leader , declared that everyone is “ absolutely thrilled ” to see Biden and called their meeting “ a breath of fresh air.
” Later when reporters asked if that comment was a criticism of Trump , the prime minister 's spokesperson said it was simply a reflection of their shared interests of security and climate change .
Some of the camaraderie in England could be chalked up to world of overt flattery .
But much of it , experts say , is the outcome of international relations finally returning to a state of norm after four years of intense whiplash .
The leaders may not have uttered Trump ’ s name out loud but his presence was felt .
“ There 's no way of describing our friends ' relief at the change of administration .
And not just because it is n't Donald Trump anymore , ” said Stephen Sestanovich , a former National Security Council and State Department official .
has a backlog of real problems to address .
The Biden administration wants to talk about how to develop cooperative responses to them in a way that the Trump administration could n't ever be serious about.
” Biden arrived in England Wednesday to attend several meetings — the G-7 , NATO and those with European Union and European Council leaders — and to discuss a host of issues , including Covid , the economy and the challenges posed by Russia and China .
His final stop will be in Geneva , where he , a meeting for which Biden has already received criticism .
This week , the G-7 countries are expected to organize no less than eight committees to work on policy issues , including the corporate tax rate ( an agreement was reached among the G-7 to implement a 15 percent minimum rate ) , technology , trade , travel and the pandemic .
Those working groups generally didn ’ t happen when Trump was president .
Instead , Trump , who never held office before being elected to president , played the role , undermining trade deals and questioning U.S. military commitments and bases overseas .
He backed Brexit in part to delegitimize the European Union , constantly criticized countries for not spending enough on defense and lodged tariffs on European exports .
Biden , who spent decades both as member on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and vice president , is perceived internationally as someone U.S. allies can work with on issues ranging from climate change to holding Iran accountable for its nuclear ambitions .
After Biden was elected , foreign leaders and diplomats quickly back something that had been missing for four years : normalcy .
“ America is back .
And we are happy you are back , ” European Council President Charles Michel told Biden in March during a video summit .
Still , some leaders are skeptical that U.S. politics , with its deep partisan divisions , will remain stable enough for the country to return to its place as a reliable global power .
Le Monde , a leading French newspaper , said in an editorial after the election that “ Trumpism ” lasting heritage of American politics.
” “ The allies do have lingering doubts about the forces that produced Trump 's election in 2016 and are wondering whether those forces are gone for good , or that possibility that the US could shift back to a more contentious , more transactional approach to NATO in 2022 , or 20 2024 , ” said Alexander Vershbow , former deputy secretary of NATO and former ambassador to South Korea and Russia .
“ I think this concern is real that , you know , the Trumpian full bore .
And in the midterms , or in the next presidential election.
” But Vershbow , now a fellow at the Atlantic Council , said European allies are adopting unique approaches to the U.S now that Biden is in office .
Germany , for example , wants the U.S. to resume its place as a leader while France doesn ’ t think the U.S. can be trusted as much as it used to be .
But Macron , who has tried to fill the leadership vacuum left by Trump , appeared much so that their interactions sparked a flurry of social media attention and led the British media to dub it a budding bromance .
The two will meet formally Saturday .
Biden has tried to nurture that idea that he is Trump ’ s inverse on the global stage .
Since he was sworn into office , he has rejoined the Paris climate accord , backed an attempt to revive the Iran nuclear deal and has spoken repeatedly about the importance of alliances , international diplomacy and emphasized America ’ s commitment to leaders that the U.S. backs NATO ’ s doctrine of collective defense and would aid a member state in the face of Russian aggression .
But there are still some worries about America ’ s policies under Biden .
Countries fret about the U.S. decision to pull troops out of Afghanistan by Sept. 11 ; the lack of urgency over the Nord Stream 2 pipeline being built to bring gas from Russia to Germany under the Baltic Sea ; and the ways the U.S. is approaching its economic rival China .
Johnson , on Thursday , supports Biden ’ s commitment to fighting climate change and the sharing of the Covid vaccine with poorer countries , which health officials say should have been done sooner .
But he is still waiting for Biden to help push through a U.K.-U.S. trade deal .
Heather Conley , who served as a deputy assistant secretary of state during the George W. Bush administration , said U.S. allies thought the Biden administration would be following their agenda , but instead it appears that Biden wants them to follow his .
s a marked shift from the Trump era in policy and tone .
The leaders still may have their differences but they ’ ll air them behind closed doors or through diplomatic channels .
“ There is no longer a feeling of complete dread before a NATO or G-7 summit or fearing that the meetings would upend U.S. policy , ” said Conley , now a senior vice president at the Center for Strategic and International Studies .
“ There was much more energy devoted to managing or mitigating former President Trump before the actual summit agenda .
This doesn ’ t mean U.S. allies agree with the Biden administration on their initiatives , but these meetings will be predictable , stable and possibly productive.
” Ryan Heath , Rym Momtaz and Esther Webber contributed to this report .