The transportation secretary Pete Buttigieg delivered a blunt warning on Sunday to Joe Manchin and other Senate Democrats who are forcing Joe Biden to scale back his climate crisis agenda : your resistance is going to cost lives .
Manchin , senator for the coal-dependent state of West Virginia , opposes elements of the president ’ s clean energy performance program ( CEPP ) , a $ 150bn central plank of his Build Back Better plan and $ 3.5tn spending bill .
White House officials have acknowledged that clean energy and clean electricity provisions are likely to be dropped from Manchin and fellow sceptic Kyrsten Sinema of Arizona .
Both votes are critical in a divided 50-50 Senate .
Buttigieg appeared to express his disappointment in Manchin ’ s stance on Sunday , telling CNN ’ s State of the Union that the holdout politicians ’ stonewalling of Biden ’ s ambitious climate plan could be deadly .
“ The longer you take to do something about it , the more it ’ s going to cost in livelihoods as well as lives , ” he said .
“ The administration and the , exactly what legislative form that takes is what ’ s being negotiated right now .
But the bottom line is we have to act on climate for the good of our children and for the good of our economy .
This is kind of like a planetary maintenance issue.
” Biden is attempting to broker a deal with Manchin and Sinema that would allow the bill to pass , though the president has already conceded that cuts will be made .
“ I ’ m convinced we ’ re going to get going to get $ 3.5tn .
We ’ ll get less than that , but we ’ re going to get it , ” Biden said on Friday .
Buttigieg ’ s criticism was more veiled than that of the progressive Vermont senator Bernie Sanders , who lambasted Manchin last week in an opinion piece in the Charleston Gazette-Mail .
“ Poll after poll shows overwhelming support for this legislation .
Yet… in a 50-50 Senate we need every Democratic senator to vote ‘ yes.
’ We now have only 48 .
Two Manchin.
” he wrote .
“ This is a pivotal moment in modern American history .
We have a historic opportunity to support the working families of West Virginia , Vermont and the entire country and create policy which works for all , not just the few.
” His comments drew swift rebuke from Manchin , who in a tweet attempted to portray Sanders as a socialist out-of-stater trying to “ tell West Virginians what is best for them ” .
“ Millions of jobs are open , supply chains are strained and hard-earned wages as the price of gasoline and groceries continues to rise , ” Manchin said .
“ I will not vote for a reckless expansion of government programs.
” Buttigieg on Sunday responded to criticisms of the administration ’ s handling of the supply chain crisis , telling CNN that it was caused at least partly by the success of Biden ’ s economic policies .
“ If you think about those ships waiting at anchor on the west coast , every one is full of record amounts of goods that Americans because income is up , because the president has successfully guided this economy out of the teeth of a terrifying recession , ” he said .
He praised Biden ’ s efforts last week to ease bottlenecks , which included ordering ports in California to operate 24 hours a day , but said in a separate interview Sunday on NBC ’ s Meet the Press that it wasn ’ t the government ’ s responsibility to solve what he said was a “ very complex problem ” .
“ You got the terminals the warehouses , the drivers , and we ’ re working on all of those angles , ” he said .
“ But these are private-sector systems , this is a capitalist country .
Nobody wants the federal government to own or operate the stores , the warehouses , the trucks , or the ships , or the ports .
Our role is to try to make sure we ’ re supporting those businesses and those workers who do .
”