The U.S. Education Department said Wednesday it 's erasing student debt for thousands of borrowers who attended a for-profit college chain that made exaggerated claims about its graduates ’ success in finding jobs .
The Biden administration said it is approving 18,000 loan forgiveness claims from former students of ITT Technical Institute , a chain that closed in 2016 after being dealt a series of sanctions by the Obama administration .
The new loan discharges will clear more than $ 500 million in debt .
The move marks a step forward in the Biden administration ’ s effort to clear defense program , which provides loan forgiveness to students who were defrauded by their colleges .
Claims piled up during the Trump administration , which stalled the program and only started processing claims after a federal court demanded it .
There are now more than 100,000 pending claims .
In announcing the new action , Education Secretary Miguel Cardona vowed to continue standing up for students who are deceived by their schools .
“ Our action today will give thousands of borrowers a fresh start and the relief they deserve , ” Cardona of these borrowers have waited a long time for relief , and we need to work swiftly to render decisions for those whose claims are still pending.
” It follows another round of loan discharges in March , when the Education Department cleared $ 1 billion in federal student debt for 72,000 borrowers .
Those claims all came from former students of for-profit colleges .
Borrower defense is among several education programs targeted for an overhaul by the Biden administration as it works to reverse Trump-era policies .
Cardona is hosting a series considers changes to that policy and others .
The program was rarely used until 2015 , when the Education Department received thousands of claims from former students of Corinthian Colleges .
The chain of for-profit colleges had recently shut down following findings that it lied to students about job placement rates .
Following the collapse of Corinthian and other beleaguered for-profit colleges , the Obama administration moved to make it easier for students to get loans erased .
But the overhaul was reversed by the Trump administration , which later wrote its own .
In changing the rules , then-Education Secretary Betsy DeVos said it had become too easy to get loans forgiven .
Cardona began chipping away at DeVos ’ rules in March when he rescinded a formula that allowed the Education Department to give only partial loan discharges to students whose claims were approved .
All borrowers granted relief will now get their loans cleared in full .
Many of the 18,000 claims from ITT Tech were approved after the Education Department found that the company lied about graduates ’ job prospects .
The significant misrepresentations ” about its ability to help students get jobs .
In reality , many students said it was harder to find employment when they listed ITT on their resumes , the department said .
Other claims were approved after the department found that ITT misled students about their ability to transfer course credits to other colleges .
Credits were rarely accepted elsewhere , the department said , leaving students with “ little to no progress ” in their academic careers .
Borrowers will be notified about their claim approvals in the @