In a new account of his time as Donald Trump ’ s fourth and final chief of staff , former Freedom Caucus Rep. Mark Meadows writes that the 74-year-old commander in chief would have beaten up protesters himself if Secret Service agents hadn ’ t made him hide in a bunker beneath the White House that the then-president later insisted he ’ d only been “ inspecting.
” “ A few hours later , the White House entered Code Red .
Protestors had jumped the fence on the Treasury side of the compound , and they were running toward the that if President Trump had the choice , he would have headed out to the lawns and knocked their heads in one by one , ” Meadows writes of the May 29 , 2020 , incident in his memoir , The Chief ’ s Chief , a copy of which was obtained by The Daily Beast ahead of its release next week .
“ But he didn ’ t have a choice .
When it comes to the United States Secret Service , no one does .
Either you do what they say make you do it .
So when the Secret Service asked President Trump to head downstairs to the White House bunker , he complied .
He knew that he could go to the bunker with a few agents by his side , or he could go on their shoulders kicking and screaming .
For everyone ’ s sake the first option was better .
“ Almost immediately news of the president ’ s trip to the bunker found its way to Peter Baker and Maggie Haberman of The New York Times , and it .
To this day , I do not know how this information got out , but I have my suspicions and it ’ s a short list… If I had to bet , I would say it was probably Stephanie Grisham , Emma Doyle , or someone from the VP ’ s team.
” Meadows , who is reportedly cooperating now with the House ’ s Jan. 6 special committee that has recommended contempt charges against two other Trump advisers , also writes in his book , as first reported by The COVID test before his Sept. 29 , 2020 , debate with Joe Biden—a week before he ended up hospitalized with the virus and doctors feared they ’ d need to put him on a ventilator .
Trump Tested Positive for COVID Before Biden Debate , Not After , Says His Ex-Chief of Staff Meadows also describes Fox talker Sean Hannity as Trump ’ s “ de facto ambassador ” to the Freedom Caucus and details a conference call with himself Trump , Vice President Mike Pence , and then House Speaker Paul Ryan with the newly sworn in president , more like a Capitol Hill legislative director than the news show host he was.
” Finally , Meadows describes how then-New York Gov .
Andrew Cuomo , who “ would bash the president in his daily press briefings and privately call to thank POTUS for everything he had done , ” made “ one strange request that would stick out ” —asking before a trip to the White House if Hope Hicks could join his meeting with Trump .
“ I don ’ t recall a , ” writes Meadows , “ but I do recall him arranging his chair in such a way that allowed him to creepily stare at her for most of the meeting.
” Read more at The Daily Beast .
Get our top stories in your inbox every day .
Sign up now !
Daily Beast Membership : Beast Inside goes deeper on the stories that matter to you .
Learn more .