PHILADELPHIA ( Reuters ) - Thomas McGarrigle , Republican Party chairman in Pennsylvania 's Delaware County , is certain that President Joe Biden 's $ 1.9 trillion coronavirus relief package is bloated with Democratic goodies and benefits Americans who have not missed a paycheck during the pandemic .
But McGarrigle had no grand plans to criticize Biden when the Democratic president on Tuesday makes the county his first stop on a `` Help is Here '' tour to tout the economic stimulus plan , passed by Congress despite unified Republican opposition .
`` We will welcome the president , because said .
After all , McGarrigle said he is not certain many voters in this Philadelphia suburb share his negative view toward the new law , which the state 's independent Fiscal Office has calculated will pump some $ 65 billion into Pennsylvania .
`` Time will tell .
It 's a massive bill and we will have to see how this plays out and whether it will be an issue in 2022 , '' McGarrigle said , referring to mid-term elections in which Republicans will seek to regain control of Congress .
will play out politically underscores a Republican dilemma , particularly in suburban regions where Democrats have gained popularity following Donald Trump 's turbulent presidency .
While no Republicans voted for it in Congress , the new law is popular with Democratic and Republican voters alike .
As Biden and his allies flood local media markets in Atlanta , Philadelphia , Las Vegas and elsewhere to promote the measure this week , the Republican National Committee is pledging to push back .
`` Our teams on the ground will be responding in real time know how little 'relief ' this bill provides , '' Republican National Committee spokeswoman Mandi Merritt said .
With an estimated 160 million households getting $ 1,400 relief checks , about $ 350 billion pouring into state and local coffers , and billions of dollars more for industries , opposition to the package may be a hard sell , political consultants from both parties said .
In a telling sign , Republican Senator Roger Wicker of Mississippi on Twitter lauded the $ 28.6 billion in aid to restaurants after the bill passed even instead may emphasize `` culture war '' issues , focus on the surge of migrants along the U.S.-Mexican border and push for more laws at the state level imposing voting restrictions , the consultants said .
In contrast , the negative Republican response to Democratic former President Barack Obama 's 2009 economic stimulus package and the Affordable Care Act , dubbed Obamacare , was relentless .
Republicans at the time were ruthless in attacking Obama , recalls Phil Schiliro , who served as Obama 's director of legislative affairs .
`` It 's like on death panels , and it got lots of media attention , '' said Schiliro , referring to the false Republican claim that Obamacare would ration life-and-death medical coverage for Americans .
The Republican response to Biden 's relief package may be different , Schiliro said , in part because of the grim reality of the pandemic 's impact in a country whose COVID-19 death tally leads the world .
`` There 's a daily death toll and Republicans will have a real challenge to make it caricature , '' Schiliro said the $ 787 billion stimulus package in 2009 , Republicans argued that it was full of wasteful government spending and failed to create jobs , even as some touted the federal dollars flowing into their states .
`` The Obama administration tried to move on to other priorities , but Republicans just stayed there and kept hammering the message , '' Schiliro said .
The 2009 measure created between 1.4 and 3.3 million new jobs , the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office found .
But by January 2010 , about 75 percent of Americans had been wasted , a CNN poll found .
The conservative Tea Party movement emerged at a time when Republicans were assailing Obama 's stimulus plan .
This time around , the Republican Party is recalibrating after a pro-Trump mob attacked the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6 in a rampage that left five people dead .
Some Republican lawmakers who did not embrace Trump 's false claims of voting fraud in the 2020 election have decided not to seek re-election .
Jeff Bartos , a Republican U.S. Senate candidate in Pennsylvania , said unified on their criticism of Biden 's package , but expressed confidence that Americans would turn against it because of its price tag .
`` We are mortgaging our children 's , our grandchildren 's future with this bill , which will require us to raise taxes , '' Bartos said .
Other Republicans promise to keep a close eye on how the money is distributed , including whether there is waste and fraud .
`` We look forward to educating voters about the disastrous socialist policies in Democrats ' corrupt , $ long after the $ 1,400 checks are spent , '' National Republican Congressional Committee spokesman Michael McAdams said .