For months , adherents of the theory that COVID-19 originated in a Chinese government laboratory have hoped that an assessment President Biden ordered from the nation 's intelligence agencies would validate their suspicions .
Their hopes are now dashed .
The intelligence report was declassified and released on Oct. 29 .
It effectively demolishes the lab-leak theory .
The release of the full report follows the publication of a brief declassified summary in August , stressing the intelligence community 's inability to reach a firm conclusion about whether SARS-CoV-2 , the virus responsible for the COVID pandemic , originated from The latest version , which is likely to be the most complete assessment to be released publicly , is couched in the same conditional and qualified language .
The report avoids offering a firm conclusion about the two prevailing theories .
But it provides details of the agencies ' findings that make clear they looked into the specific assertions that have been proposed in support of the lab-leak theory and found them wanting .
The intelligence agencies also noted that although no animal source for the virus has yet been identified , that a natural source .
In many previous outbreaks , the report says , `` the identification of animal sources has taken years , and in some cases , animal sources have not been identified . ''
The report was published by the Office of the Director of National Intelligence , an umbrella agency for 17 government intelligence services , including the CIA , FBI , four Cabinet agencies and the intelligence arms of the military services .
Experts who were contacted by the intelligence services preparing the report have said they were impressed scientific analysis .
`` These folks were really knowledgeable , had PhDs in molecular biology , they had read all of the papers in detail , ” Tulane virologist Robert Garry told science writer Amy Maxmen of Nature in August .
The lab-leak theory has been kept on life support for more than a year by partisan propagandists , abetted by amateurs posting on social media and credulous journalists reluctant to relinquish a story that would be , as the saying goes , `` interesting , if true . ''
As we 've SARS-CoV-2 virus escaped from a Chinese laboratory to wreak havoc on the world originated with a clutch of anti-China ideologues in the State Department under Trump .
In its initial incarnation , the hypothesis held that the virus was developed by the Beijing government as a biological weapon .
Its proponents soon abandoned that claim as too fantastical to win over many believers , so they retreated to the claim that it was merely genetically engineered in standard virological research and reached the outside world through inattention or accident .
In its most a precursor virus was brought from the wild to a Chinese lab in Wuhan and evolved there , and that was what sneaked out into the open .
The intelligence assessment dismisses the first two versions outright .
It suggests that while it 's `` plausible '' that a lab worker unwittingly became the carrier , that 's `` less likely than an infection occurring through numerous hunters , farmers , merchants , and others who have frequent , natural contact with animals . ''
The report states that the agencies judged the scientifically invalid claims , '' adding that its `` proponents are suspected of spreading disinformation . ''
It says that the intelligence agencies found no `` genetic signatures in SARS-CoV-2 '' that would indicate genetic engineering , such as deliberate manipulation of a virus in the lab to make it more dangerous to humans .
Nor did they find evidence of any virus strains that `` could have plausibly served as a backbone '' — that is , a biological foundation — for a genetically engineered version .
The agencies examined one of , involving the so-called furin cleavage site on SARS-CoV-2 .
This is a feature of the virus ' spike , the structure that allows it to penetrate healthy cells and pass along infectious material .
To be effective , the spike has to be cut in two , a process achieved by the enzyme furin .
Lab-leak proponents have asserted that the furin site is so rare and so well-adapted to human infection that it 's certain to have been added to the virus in a lab .
Just as many academic virologists furin sites have been found in naturally occurring viruses and can be the product of natural evolution .
The intelligence services found support for the so-called zoonotic theory that the pandemic resulted from a natural spillover of the virus from animals to humans in virological history .
Many virological outbreaks have happened this way , the report observes .
`` Extensive wildlife and livestock farming , wildlife trafficking , and live animal markets in China , '' along with historically lax government oversight , `` increase the probability that initial transmission occurred along lab-leak hypothesis , the services say , comes chiefly from reports questioning whether the Wuhan institute conducted its research under adequate biological safeguards .
But the services found `` no indications that the institute 's research involved SARS-CoV-2 or a close progenitor virus . ''
The report does state that , among its contributing agencies , four `` assess with low confidence '' that the virus probably sprung from natural sources ; one finds with `` moderate confidence '' that the pandemic `` most likely '' resulted from a laboratory incident , and theories .
The report does n't link specific agencies to those findings , however .
The intelligence services also reproach the Chinese government for hindering international investigations of COVID-19 's origins , in part by refusing to share information about WIV research or its own findings about the early course of the disease in Wuhan .
`` These actions reflect , in part , China 's government 's own uncertainty about where an investigation could lead , '' the U.S. report says , `` as well as its frustration the international community is on China . ''
The services are generally dismissive of what it calls `` open-source '' theories of the pandemic 's origin , typically passed around on social media .
`` These theories generally do not provide diagnostic information on COVID-19 origins , and in some cases are not supported by the information available to us . ''
Whether the government report will stifle the propaganda about a Chinese lab-leak is uncertain , but that may not be the way to bet .
Too many people are ideologically committed to the claim , that has had little science to support it from the start probably wo n't matter .