WASHINGTON — Roe v. Wade has had a rough two weeks at the Supreme Court .
On Dec. 1 , at arguments over its fate in a case from Mississippi , the five most conservative justices showed no interest in doing anything short of overruling it .
Sign up for The Morning newsletter from the New York Times Then , on Friday , those same five justices allowed a Texas law that bans most abortions after six weeks to remain in place and seemed to shut down any effective way to challenge it in federal court .
That law , 1 , is flatly at odds with Roe , which established a constitutional right to abortion and prohibited states from banning the procedure before fetal viability , or around 23 weeks of pregnancy .
A decision in the Mississippi case is not expected until late June .
If the court overrules Roe , an increasingly real possibility , it will have to explain why it is departing from the principle of stare decisis , which is legal Latin for “ to stand by things decided.
” At his 2005 confirmation hearings , Chief should be wary of overturning precedents , in part because doing so threatens the court ’ s legitimacy .
“ It is a jolt to the legal system when you overrule a precedent , ” he said , listing various factors the court must consider before it takes the momentous step of discarding a precedent .
They include , the court has said , “ the quality of the decision ’ s reasoning.
” At the argument in the Mississippi case , concerning a state law that bans most abortions after 15 weeks in an apparent attempt to dampen the jolt to the system .
He suggested that the fetal-viability line established in Roe was not a crucial part of the decision ’ s reasoning .
“ Was viability an issue in the case ?
” he asked .
“ I know it wasn ’ t briefed or argued.
” In shifting the focus from what the court had done to what the parties in the case had asked it to do , the chief justice was trying to justify upholding a 15-week line while stopping would allow states to make all abortions illegal .
Whatever his goal , though , shifting the analysis from the words of the opinion to the advocacy that gave rise to it is a recent development and yet another way to undermine precedents .
Richard J. Lazarus , a law professor at Harvard , explored this mode of argument in a recent article in The Supreme Court Review called “ Advocacy History in the Supreme Court.
” The article makes the sensible point that a full understanding of a Supreme Court decision requires the case .
In preparing for a Supreme Court argument in which an earlier decision plays a central role , sophisticated lawyers scour the briefs and the argument transcript in the earlier case .
“ It ’ s a tool in the advocacy toolbox , ” said Jeffrey L. Fisher , a law professor at Stanford and a director of its Supreme Court clinic .
“ Often the opinion is going to be the second- or third-most relevant and helpful source.
” Roberts ’ question seemed to go further , suggesting that the turn on the arguments that had been presented to the court .
In 2007 , in an opinion limiting the use of race in assigning students to public schools to achieve integration , Roberts made a similar move .
A key precedent in that case was Brown v. Board of Education , the 1954 decision banning racial segregation in public schools .
The chief justice wrote that his 2007 opinion was “ faithful to the heritage ” of Brown .
He made his case by quoting from the original briefs in the case .
( Lawyers who had worked on the Brown litigation called the chief justice ’ s analysis “ preposterous ” and “ 100 % wrong.
” ) In 2008 , in Justice Antonin Scalia ’ s majority opinion in District of Columbia v. Heller , which recognized an individual right to own guns under the Second Amendment , he discounted the leading precedent by focusing on its litigation history .
The defendants “ made no appearance in the case , neither filing a brief nor appearing at oral argument ; the court heard reason enough , one would think , not to make that case the beginning and the end of this court ’ s consideration of the Second Amendment ) , ” wrote Scalia , who died in 2016 .
Lazarus said that it was one thing to look at the litigation history of a Supreme Court decision to understand it better and another to give it more or less precedential weight depending on what the lawyers had or had not argued .
Roberts ’ question about Roe was in a sense irrelevant , as thoroughly argued in Planned Parenthood v. Casey , the 1992 decision that reaffirmed Roe ’ s core holding .
That made Roe a “ super-duper precedent , ” Sen. Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania said at Roberts ’ confirmation hearings .
The chief justice did not adopt Specter ’ s terminology , but he did not quarrel with the senator ’ s larger point .
“ The Casey decision itself , which applied the principles of stare decisis to Roe v. Wade , is itself a precedent of the court , entitled to respect Roberts said , adding : “ That is itself a precedent .
It ’ s a precedent on whether or not to revisit the Roe v. Wade precedent.
” Lazarus said the court ’ s recent approach to precedent pointed in a different direction .
“ Stare decisis , even for a case that has been referred to as super-precedent , is on the wane at the court , ” he said .
“ And advocacy history plays a role .
”