• None Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi said in a letter Sunday that impeachment proceedings will begin this week if Vice President Mike Pence does not respond to calls to invoke the 25th Amendment .
• None Should the House successfully impeach Trump , a Senate trial would determine whether or not to remove him from office , but Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has said that trial would n't happen until after the end of Trump 's term .
• None Calls to remove Trump from office have grown since the deadly riots at the US Capitol by .
In a letter sent to her Democratic colleagues Sunday , Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi said impeachment proceedings will start this week if Vice President Mike Pence does not invoke the 25th Amendment .
`` In protecting our Constitution and our Democracy , we will act with urgency , because this President represents an imminent threat to both , '' Pelosi said in the letter , obtained by CNN .
`` As the days go by , the horror of the ongoing assault on our democracy perpetuated by this President is for action . ''
Pelosi said the House will first seek to pass a resolution calling on Pence to activate the 25th Amendment , which would allow the vice president and a majority of the Cabinet to declare President Donald Trump unable to fulfill his duties .
Unless the House unanimously agrees to the resolution on Monday , which is unlikely , the House will vote on the resolution Tuesday and give Pence 24 hours to respond .
If the vice president declines to act , the House will then proceed with impeachment .
Read more : How Congress could vote to bar Trump from ever holding federal office again and kill any chances of a 2024 run There have been mixed reports on whether or not the vice president will choose to invoke the 25th Amendment .
Two of Pence 's advisors told Insider 's Tom LoBianco it 's highly unlikely he would opt for the unprecedented intervention , but other reports say he 's not ruling it out .
The timeline Pelosi outlines in the letter means the House could move forward with impeachment after the deadly riots at the US Capitol by a mob of the president 's supporters .
Should the House successfully impeach Trump , for the second time , a Senate trial would determine whether or not to remove him from office .
However , according to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell , because the Senate is currently in recess , that trial would likely not begin until after Trump leaves office on January 20 .
Calls to remove Trump from office have grown since the Capitol siege and are coming from Democratic immediately began planning to impeachment the president for `` incitement of insurrection . ''
`` President Trump gravely endangered the security of the United States and its institutions of government , '' a draft article of impeachment obtained by CNN said .
`` He threatened the integrity of the democratic system , interfered with the peaceful transition of power , and imperiled a coordinated branch of government . ''
`` President Trump thus warrants impeachment and trial , removal from office , and disqualification to hold and enjoy any office of honor , States , '' the draft said .
But House Majority Whip James Clyburn suggested Sunday that the House should consider waiting to bring articles of impeachment until after President-elect Joe Biden 's first 100 days in office .
`` Let 's give President-elect Biden the 100 days he needs to get his agenda off and running , and maybe we 'll send the articles sometime after that , '' he said during an interview on CNN .
He also said it would allow time to `` make an effective presentation to the Senate when to begin impeachment proceedings is ultimately up to the Speaker .