• None Former White House press secretary Sean Spicer says he plans to sue President Joe Biden .
• None Biden removed Spicer and other Trump appointees from advisory roles at US military schools .
• None `` I will not be submitting my resignation and I will be joining a lawsuit , '' Spicer said .
• None See more stories on Insider 's business page .
Former White House press secretary Sean Spicer says he plans to sue President Joe Biden over his demand that Spicer and others resign from positions at US military academies given to them I will not be submitting my resignation and I will be joining a lawsuit to fight this , '' Spicer said Wednesday on Newsmax , the conservative cable network where he is an anchor .
He shared a letter from the White House Office of Presidential Personnel asking him to resign from the Board of Visitors at the United States Naval Academy , an oversight position .
If he did not quit by Wednesday , it said , he would be fired .
The Biden administration on Wednesday sent letters to 11 Trump-era their resignations .
They include Spicer , former National Security Adviser H. R. McMaster , and Trump 's former senior adviser Kellyanne Conway .
The appointees held positions at schools including the US Military Academy and US Naval Academy .
White House press secretary Jen Psaki on Wednesday confirmed that the current administration was seeking to remove them , Insider 's Grace Panetta reported .
Psaki took a dig at Spicer and Conway in the process .
`` The president 's objective is what any president 's objective is , was to ensure these boards who are qualified to serve on them and who are aligned with your values , '' Psaki said .
`` And so yes , that was an ask that was made .
I will let others evaluate whether they think Kellyanne Conway and Sean Spicer and others were qualified ... to serve on these boards . ''
Spicer hit back at Psaki , citing his service in the US Navy Reserve , where he is a commander .
`` For 22 years I have had the honor of serving alongside some brave individuals this country has to offer , '' he said .
`` I 've done multiple tours and politics has never entered into my service . ''
He did not specify the nature of the lawsuit he planned to bring or explain how Biden 's decision could be deemed unlawful .
Other members whose resignations were requested have also pushed back .
Conway , who sits on the Board of Visitors to the United States Air Force Academy , said she would refuse to resign - meaning she would be fired - and political , if not personal . ''
Russell Vought , a former Director of the Office of Management and Budget under Trump , also refused to resign his position , sharing a photo of the letter he had received along with the caption : `` No .
It 's a three year term . ''