Gina McCarthy , President Biden 's top domestic climate official , has n't forgotten Big Oil 's past funding of climate denial groups , but she now sees an evolving industry .
Driving the news : Axios ' Mike Allen , interviewing McCarthy for `` Axios on HBO , '' asked if Big Oil is an ally or an enemy in the fight against climate change .
Stay on top of the latest market trends and economic insights with Axios Markets .
Subscribe for free • None McCarthy replied : `` Fossil fuel companies have been , you know , on , on fighting the idea that climate change was real . ''
• None But she added : `` I think we even see them recognizing now that the future is different than it used to be and their way of making money is not going to be the same . ''
Why it matters : The comments come as major oil companies are setting emissions targets , calling for carbon pricing and investing more in clean energy .
However , oil and natural gas remain their dominant investments , and the activist investors to move faster .
Here 's a bit more from the interview ... Meat : McCarthy does n't appear worried about inaccurate conservative claims that Biden 's coming for your hamburgers .
`` If you have to make up stuff like that , you must have a very losing argument , '' she said .
Electric cars : `` Our car companies know that electric vehicles are the future .
And they are working with us to make sure that that future 's delivered in the United States , '' McCarthy administration wants to help boost domestic extraction of key battery minerals when asked about competing with China .
• None `` The good thing is that we 've discovered that we have those minerals available in the United States and we 've identified a number of states where we can do some responsible mining , '' McCarthy said .
Message : McCarthy , asked why she 's a climate optimist despite evident perils , said she 's `` looking at all of the great technology options available today . ''
• None `` people excited about what 's available , get that deployed to its maximum , '' she said .
• None A frame of sacrifice , McCarthy said , `` is never going to be a winning strategy '' and it 's `` ridiculous '' coming out of the pandemic .
The way forward , she said , is emphasizing jobs .
Like this article ?
Get more from Axios and subscribe to Axios Markets for free .