YORKVILLE , Ill. ( AP ) — Former U.S. House Speaker Dennis Hastert and a man who accused him of child sexual abuse reached a tentative out-of-court settlement Wednesday over Hastert ’ s refusal to pay the man $ 1.8 million — the outstanding balance in hush money that the Illinois Republican agreed to pay the man in 2010 .
Lawyers would not release details of the settlement , arrived at just days before a civil trial in the case that was set to start .
It would have focused on a novel legal issue about whether Hastert ’ s to buy the silence of a man he abused as a teenager amounted to a legally binding contract .
The man has been referred to only as James Doe in court papers since the breach of contract lawsuit was filed in 2016 in Illinois court in Yorkville , Hastert 's hometown just west of Chicago .
The hush-money deal would eventually lead to a federal criminal case against Hastert five years later and to public disgrace for the a GOP stalwart who , for eight years as House speaker , was second in .
In the federal case , prosecutors said Hastert sexually abused at least four male students between the ages of 14 and 17 throughout his years at Yorkville High School .
Hastert was in his 20s and 30s .
Federal prosecutors said during criminal proceedings that the hush-money deal was voluntarily entered into and that the victim never sought to blackmail Hastert that he ’ d go public about the abuse .
The abuse happened when the victim was a high school wrestler and the now 79-year-old Hastert was his coach .
Hastert but stopped the payments after the FBI questioned him in 2014 about illegally concealing huge cash withdraws from his bank .
After Hastert pleaded guilty to a banking charge and was sentenced to over a year in prion in 2016 .
He couldn ’ t be charged with sexual abuse because the statute of limitations had long since run out .
After Hastert 's sentencing , the victim sued for breach of contract to force Hastert to pay the outstanding $ 1.8 million .
A Kendall County judge , Robert Pilmer , announced afternoon during a hearing scheduled earlier to discuss logistics of jury selection — which was supposed to begin Monday .
After the hearing , attorneys for both the plaintiff and Hastert declined to provide any settlement details , including whether Hastert agreed to pay the man and , if so , how much .
Asked if the resolution of the civil case was a coda on a long , arduous journey for her client , plaintiff attorney Kristi Browne told reporters outside court : “ It ’ s never over for a victim impacts them for the rest of their lives.
” The sides planned to hammer out a written agreement over the next several days and notify the judge by Sept. 24 that it is completed , Browne said .
“ Frankly , I was looking forward to the trial , ” Browne said .
“ I would have loved to try this case .
I think it was a good case .
...
But this is a resolution my client is comfortable with.
” Browne declined to say whether the judge ’ s recent name public at trial entered into his decision to settle now .
A trial would likely have been emotionally draining for both Hastert and the man he abused , both of whom could have been called to testify .
Questions were raised during the over four years since the suit was filed about whether Hastert ’ s legal team might try to suggest Doe was trying to extort the ex-Speaker .
Browne said Judge Pilmer ruled earlier that Hastert 's lawyers could not attempt to make that claim .
“ We weren ’ in court .
We weren ’ t expecting that to be raised as a defense , ” she said .
At his 2016 sentencing , U.S. District Judge Thomas M. Durkin repeatedly rebuked Hastert before issuing a 15-month sentence , telling him that his abuse devastated the lives of victims .
“ Nothing is more stunning than to have the words ‘ serial child molester ’ and ‘ speaker of the House ’ in the same sentence , ” Durkin told Hastert .
The judge also noted how Hastert had told investigators that man in the civil case was referred to in the federal criminal case — was making a bogus claim of sex abuse to extort him for money .
“ Accusing Individual A of extortion was unconscionable , ” Durkin said .
“ He was a victim ( of abuse ) decades ago and you tried to make him a victim again.
” Federal prosecutors said it was Hastert who asked that lawyers not be brought in to put the $ 3.5 million deal in writing .
They portrayed it as a legitimate deal Hastert admitted in his criminal case that he abused the man and other athletes , though in some filings in the civil case he sometimes appeared to be backing away from that admission .
“ I think he has said different things at different times , ” Browne told reporters .
“ But I can ’ t speak to what his intent was or his motivations were.
” Asked by a reporter outside court Wednesday if Hastert was , in fact , reneging on that admission , Hastert 's attorney , John Ellis @