In the latest development in the partisan Republican “ audit ” of Arizona presidential votes , voting system data has been taken to a secret hideout in Montana .
An unsupervised driver transported copies of ballot data in a truck to a cabin in the community of Bigfork in northwest Montana , several media outlets reported .
The state Senate Republican liaison has “ confirmed that copies of voting system data was sent to a ‘ lab ’ in Montana , ” an observer wrote earlier this month on an “ SOS ” website set up by the office of D ) .
“ He did not specify what security measures were in place , or what the lab in Montana will do with the data , or how long it will be in possession of the copies , ” added the note .
Hobbs , who ’ s running for governor , called the Montana operation “ madness.
” She said audit organizers promised a “ transparent ” operation with cameras .
“ There was no camera in a cabin in Montana , ” she said .
“ You can ’ t told CNN , which refers to the operation as a “ fraudit.
” “ If it wasn ’ t happening right in front of our eyes , we wouldn ’ t believe it was happening.
” ( Check out the video above . )
Arizona Republic journalist Jen Fifield discovered that the cabin now holding the records is the residence of Ben Cotton , founder of digital company CyFIR , which is a subcontractor of the company running the recount .
CyFIR ’ s parent company , Cyber Technologies , also run by address in the Montana woods , which was tracked down by CNN this week .
The audit of 2.1 million votes in Maricopa County is hugely controversial .
The audit was ordered by state Senate Republicans , and only involves races won by Democrats .
The partisan review by the Cyber Ninjas company , which has no experience with elections , is headed by conspiracy theorist Doug Logan , a promoter of the “ Big Lie ” that the election was rigged .
He posted messages months ago that “ hundreds of thousands found for Donald Trump .
In one off-the-rails operation , Cyber Ninjas operatives are seeking evidence of bamboo fibers in ballots as proof that China interfered with the election .
One of the auditors actually appears on the same ballots he ’ s reviewing as both a failed GOP candidate and an elector for Trump .
Election officials have warned that large numbers of the unsecured ballots may already have been altered or trashed , and are now completely unreliable — and that manipulation of voting machines has rendered them unusable for future of voter data , “ at this point in the audit , nothing really is surprising to me , ” Fifield told Montana NBC affiliate KGVO-TV .
“ The Senate has never told us the full list of contractors involved and the names of the people .
It ’ s been like a puzzle trying to put everything together.
” State Senate liaison Ken Bennett confirmed to KGVO that the “ powerful lab ” is run by Cotton .
Transported data was downloaded from the hard drives that Maricopa County used in the or may not include voter registration data , and some of it could be sensitive , Bennett said .
Fifield said technology experts have warned of the danger of “ unfettered access ” in Montana to data that could contain voters ’ private information .
Cotton refused to discuss the data with KGVO because he said he has signed a nondisclosure agreement .
The Arizona vote was certified more than six months ago by Republican Gov .
Doug Ducey after several recounts failed to find any irregularities .
Joe Biden beat Trump by edged out his rival by more than 2 percentage points ― about 45,000 votes ― in Maricopa County , which includes Phoenix .
Trump has indicated to guests at his Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida that he thinks votes unearthed for him by the Cyber Ninjas could be his way back to White House reinstatement .
This article originally appeared on HuffPost and has been updated .