Caitlyn Jenner is considering a run in California 's gubernatorial recall election and is set to meet with GOP political advisors next week on any potential next steps , a source confirmed to CBS News .
The former reality TV star and Olympian is getting guidance from Republican fundraiser Caroline Wren and former Trump campaign manager Brad Parscale , according to Politico and The New York Times .
Politico reported on Thursday that they are set to be at the meeting with Jenner next week at her home in Malibu .
She has also been in contact with Dave Rexrode Association , a Republican source familiar with the talks told CBS News .
The RGA does not endorse in primaries .
Her potential entrance in the race comes amid a recall effort against current Democratic Governor Gavin Newsom over his handling of the COVID-19 pandemic .
More than 2.1 million signatures are in the process of being verified now , with just under 1.5 million required to trigger a special recall election sometime in the fall .
If the signatures are verified , the ballot will have two questions : One that asks on who replaces him if the recall passes .
A recent poll from the Public Policy Institute of California found that 56 % of Californians would not vote to remove Newsom from office .
Jenner 's high profile mirrors the celebrity recognition of actor Arnold Schwarzenagger , who ran and won the gubernatorial recall election as a Republican in 2003 .
But recall expert Joseph Spivak called it a `` pale echo '' and pointed to the 135 candidates that signed up to run in 2003 .
`` Anyone could have a chance the plurality requirement , but I do n't see that she has any natural constituency , '' he said .
`` We probably should expect many more potential stars looking for a career boost to jump in .
All you need is about $ 4,200 and a dream . ''
One GOP consultant who worked on Schwarzenegger 's campaign in 2003 said Jenner 's `` name ID alone makes her a serious contender . ''
`` All bets are off in a recall election .
A candidate could win with just a fraction said .
Jenner denied a run in February , according to Politico .
Her latest retweet in April criticized lockdowns in Los Angeles County and Newsom 's pandemic response .
Representatives for Jenner did not return requests for comment .
Since coming out as a transgender woman in April 2015 , Jenner has been a notable voice in the transgender community .
She voted for Mr. Trump in the 2016 election in hopes of helping shape some of his LGBTQ policies but took away her support in 2018 .
Her potential candidacy comes from participating in women 's sports have become a conservative litmus test .
`` The reality is that the trans community is being relentlessly attacked by this president .
The leader of our nation has shown no regard for an already marginalized and struggling community , '' she wrote in a Washington Post op-ed .
If she decides to run , and wins , she 'd become the first transgender governor in U.S. history .
Republican candidates who have already declared in the recall election include former San Diego Mayor Kevin Faulconer , Cox .
Richard Grennell , former acting Director of National Intelligence under the Trump administration , is also a potential candidate .