BOSTON ( AP ) — Boston has a new mayor in Kim Janey , who became the city ’ s first female and first person of color to take the office Monday .
Marty Walsh resigned Monday evening to become President Joe Biden ’ s labor secretary .
The Boston City Council President Janey , who is Black , stepped into the role of acting mayor and is scheduled to have a ceremonial swearing in Wednesday .
Walsh , the latest in a long line of largely Irish-American Boston mayors stretching back the better part of a century — with welcomed the change .
“ History will be made tonight , ” Walsh said earlier in the evening .
“ We ’ re an extremely diverse city from different backgrounds and different nationalities and different skin colors .
I think it ’ s a good thing for our city .
I think it ’ s a great thing for our city.
” Janey took to Twitter to wish Walsh well following his confirmation by the U.S. Senate .
“ Congratulations on your confirmation , Secretary Walsh .
You are a proud son of you , ” she tweeted .
“ The working people of America will benefit greatly from your passion.
” “ Now , we look ahead to a new day — a new chapter — in Boston ’ s history , ” Janey , a fellow Democrat , added .
Walsh said for the past two months he ’ s had regular meetings and conversations with Janey .
The two have also held extensive planning sessions , he said .
“ Together the council president and myself and our teams have worked diligently to said .
By any typical political stopwatch , Janey ’ s rise has been lightning quick .
She was first sworn in as a city councilor just three years ago .
Although Janey , 56 , is holding the office only on an interim basis , she ’ s widely seen as hailing a new chapter in Boston ’ s political history .
Those actively seeking the office include three women of color — current city councilors Michelle Wu , Andrea Campbell and Annissa Essaibi George .
John Barros , who is of Santiago are also running .
Barros served as chief of economic development under Walsh .
Janey has a long history of activism in Boston , with deep roots in Roxbury , the heart of the city ’ s Black community .
He grandfather , Daniel Benjamin Janey , was a member of Twelfth Baptist Church where Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. worshipped while attending Boston University .
Her father was one of only eight Black students to graduate from the city ’ s prestigious Boston Latin School in 1964 .
While spending time in the city ’ s South End neighborhood , Janey was also exposed to the city ’ s political culture as she watched a neighbor — Black community activist and former state Rep. Mel King — launch a bid for mayor in 1983 , losing to Ray Flynn , an Irish-American city councilor .
During the second phase of Boston ’ s tumultuous school desegregation era , Janey would recall the rocks and racial slurs she said were hurled at her as an 11-year-old girl riding the bus to the largely white neighborhood part in a program that allowed her to attend school outside the city .
Janey began her career in advocacy with Massachusetts Advocates for Children , pushing for policy changes she said were aimed at ensuring equity and excellence for public school students in Boston .
In 2017 , she won a 13-candidate race and became the first woman to represent her district , which includes most of Roxbury , parts of the South End , Dorchester , and Fenway areas of the city .
Although she hasn ’ t said yet if the fall , there is precedent for an interim mayor using the temporary post as a stepping stone to winning the seat outright .
When former Mayor Raymond Flynn stepped down to become President Bill Clinton ’ s ambassador to the Vatican , then-city council president Thomas Menino stepped in as interim mayor in July 1993 , won the mayoral election later that year , and ended up serving in the office longer than anyone in the city ’ s history .
This article originally appeared on HuffPost and has been updated .