Rep. Dan Crenshaw ( R-TX ) , who has repeatedly tried to have it both ways when it comes to former president Donald Trump ’ s “ big lie , ” was heckled by a fervent MAGA supporter and election denialist at a recent fundraising event for saying the 2020 election wasn ’ t stolen .
While speaking at the Illinois GOP Fundraising dinner in Rosemont , Illinois on Wednesday evening , Crenshaw was asked by an attendee if he believed in “ election integrity ” and whether he thought last year ’ s presidential election was rigged against Trump lawsuits have been tossed out of court and multiple state and local election officials , along with former Attorney General William Barr , have confirmed there was no widespread fraud that would have impacted the vote . )
“ There ’ s certain states with problems , but don ’ t kid yourself into believing that ’ s why we lost , it ’ s not .
It ’ s not , ” Crenshaw responded , prompting Bobby Piton , a fringe Illinois Senate candidate who believes Trump will be reinstated this year .
Piton , a QAnon booster who served as an “ expert witness ” during Trump personal attorney Rudy Giuliani ’ s sham election fraud hearings last year , insisted there was “ plenty of proof ” that of widespread voter fraud and that states like Arizona will soon flip back to Trump , citing the largely discredited ballot “ audit ” in that state .
( Piton has been consulted on the so-called audit . )
“ It won ’ t , and you ’ ve got to flip all five states responded , as Piton asked if he knew how Democrats were “ stealing ” the election .
“ It ’ s just something you ’ ve got to accept .
Is there a lot of voter fraud ?
Yeah , there probably is .
Enough that Trump won ?
Absolutely not .
Absolutely not , ” he concluded , adding that Piton was “ kidding ” himself if he believed Trump would be reinstated .
“ It is disgusting to hear denials from a sitting do-nothing and intellectually dishonest Congressman in our House on Facebook .
“ Crenshaw has done nothing but shill for the Democrats and refuse to even see or hear the evidence of fraud.
” This latest Republican-on-Republican confrontation over Trump ’ s baseless claims the election was rigged comes as MAGA-boosting pillow salesman Mike Lindell ’ s three-day “ cyber symposium ” to prove Trump was robbed has spectacularly imploded , as Lindell ’ s lead cyber expert recently admitted they have no proof the election was hacked .
Read more at The Daily Beast .
Get our top stories in your !
Daily Beast Membership : Beast Inside goes deeper on the stories that matter to you .
Learn more .