• None Trump appointees told Politico that Biden ended their parental leave when he took office .
• None Getting paid family leave is a recent win for federal employees ; the law went into effect in October .
• None Biden had no obligation to honor the leave , but experts said it would have set a good precedent .
• None Visit the Business section of Insider for more stories .
Political appointees of President Donald Trump told Politico that President Joe Biden cut short their paid parental leave when he took office .
While Biden is under Trump 's political appointees , experts told the outlet that it would have set a good precedent .
The appointees who spoke with Politico all had paid family leave approved for a period spanning the end of the Trump administration and the beginning of the Biden administration .
While federal employees appointed by a president typically leave when that administration ends , these employees said they were told that their family leave would be honored by the incoming administration - only to learn at the last minute that it would end as soon Ambrosini , who was a deputy communications director at the Commerce Department , told Politico that she 'd had a baby the week before Christmas and that her human-resources department signed off on her taking leave from early January to late March .
She said that the day before her baby was due , on December 17 , she was told that her leave would end when Biden was sworn in .
`` I got completely screwed , '' Ambrosini told Politico .
`` There were no caveats in that language saying anything get nothing and of course , that happened and so I got nothing . ''
A couple who worked for Trump 's Department of Homeland Security said they were told two weeks after their baby was born prematurely on December 18 that the agency had made a mistake and that their full leave would not be honored .
The couple told Politico that they had appealed directly to the incoming administration for special consideration but were told they would not get it .
Read more : Republicans are reluctant to say who 's from the White House '' This is not what you were hoping to hear but I think you also knew that this was the most likely outcome , '' a Biden official told them in an email , which they shared with Politico .
`` I am sorry to be the bearer of this news and I am sorry I do n't have other news . ''
Paid family leave for federal employees went into effect only last October , so there is no precedent for presidents honoring paid family leave for a had praised the law , tweeting that it was `` about time that federal workers get paid parental leave '' to `` address their own health needs or care for any of their loved ones . ''
While Biden had no legal obligation to honor paid family leave for Trump appointees who welcomed babies at the end of the administration , family-leave experts told Politico that it would have been a good look .
`` Paid parental leave is really really important for maternal health , for child wellbeing , for family connectivity in that new parents ' shoes and not having the finances , '' Adrienne Schweer told Politico .
`` Extending it to a couple people for a few months could be a good thing .
There is precedent for unique circumstances , and I would love to see a good example set of ensuring that as many people as possible can have paid parental leave . ''
The Biden White House did not comment on the record to Politico about ending family-leave benefits , but an anonymous official told the outlet that there consider special accommodations because the Trump administration had put off the transition until the last minute .
`` We understand that a few Trump appointees , including a handful currently on parental leave , submitted last minute requests to remain on government payroll , '' the official told Politico .
`` Because these requests were received so close to Inauguration Day … there was no way to implement an exception to the rule in a way that is fair to all outgoing appointees , including many who resigned as expected without making requests House did not respond to Insider 's request for comment .
The General Services Administration , the agency that handles presidential transitions , declined to comment .