WASHINGTON ( AP ) — Attorneys for a cybersecurity lawyer charged last month in a special counsel 's probe into the Trump-Russia investigation asked federal prosecutors Wednesday to provide more information about the indictment , calling the allegations vague , ill-defined and confusing .
The motion by attorneys for Michael Sussmann previews the lines of attack they intend to use in defending him on a charge of making a false statement to the FBI five years ago .
The case was brought by John Durham , the prosecutor tasked with examining the U.S. government 's investigation into ties between Russia .
Sussmann has pleaded not guilty , and his lawyers have attacked the case as driven by politics rather than facts .
Sussmann is accused of lying to the FBI during a September 2016 conversation in which he relayed concerns about potentially suspicious activity between a Trump Organization server and the server of a Russian bank .
The indictment alleges Sussmann told the FBI 's then-general counsel , James Baker , that he was not bringing the concerns to the FBI on behalf of any particular client when he was actually representing the .
In a motion filed Wednesday , Sussmann 's lawyers note that the alleged false statement was unrecorded and that there are no contemporaneous notes about it .
Baker , the sole witness , has “ already disclaimed memory of the statement ” and has testified in ways that support rather than cut against Sussmann 's account , according to Sussmann 's lawyers .
Sussmann , they say , has consistently maintained that he met with the FBI on behalf of a cyber expert client and that he was trying to alert the about potential cyber contacts between the Trump server and the Russian bank .
The FBI ultimately examined the matter , but found no evidence of a communications backchannel .
The motion for what 's known under the law as a “ bill of particulars ” seeks additional information about the allegations , including the precise words of Sussmann 's alleged false statement and the context in which it was made .
“ While the Indictment in this matter is 27 pages long , the majority of the allegations are not relevant to the charge , ” says the motion from Sussmann 's lawyers .
“ And on that charge , a single alleged false statement , the Indictment plainly fails to provide Mr. Sussmann with the detail and clarity that the law requires and that is essential in enabling Mr. Sussmann to prepare his defense.
” Spokespeople for Durham and the Justice Department did not immediately return an email seeking comment .
Durham , a longtime federal prosecutor who served for years as the U.S. attorney in Connecticut , was appointed in 2019 by Attorney General in the federal investigation into potential coordination between Russia and the Trump campaign .
Barr appointed him a special counsel last year as a way to help ensure that he could complete his work without being fired in a new administration .
The case against Sussmann is only the second criminal prosecution Durham has brought in two and a half years of work .
Last year , he secured a guilty plea from a former FBI lawyer , Kevin Clinesmith , on a charge that he altered a government email .
Clinesmith was @