The Government Accountability Office (GAO) is reviewing the transition of President Trump's team to the White House after two Democratic lawmakers raised concerns.

The GAO wrote in a letter to Sen.(D-Mass.) and Rep. Elijah Cummings (D-Md.), the top Democrat on the House Oversight Committee, that it will "examine the 2017 presidential transition on the basis of your letter to the comptroller general."

"We plan to complete our work and send a draft product to the agencies for comment in June 2017," the GAO added in the letter, which was sent last week but released on Tuesday.

As part of its probe, the GAO is planning to review laws tied to presidential transition, how the General Services Administration's transition funds were spent and what private financing was collected.

The accountability office is also going to look into what financial disclosure and ethics information the Office of Government Ethics (OGE) made available, as well as what "information and services" tied to speaking with other governments were given to then-President-elect Trump and Vice President Pence's transition team.  The accountability office is also going to look into what financial disclosure and ethics information the Office of Government Ethics (OGE) made available, as well as what "information and services" tied to speaking with other governments were given to then-President-elect Trump and Vice President Pence's transition team.

Warren and Cummings sent a letter to the comptroller general late last year asking for a "review of President-Elect Trump's taxpayer-funded transition" including financial conflicts of interests, if Trump's team broke rules when talking with foreign leaders and taxpayer funds used for the transition.

The GAO notes in its letter that it also met with the lawmakers' staffs in late February.

The two lawmakers said in their November 2016 letter that they supported funding transition efforts, but had concerns about the Trump team.

"We have significant questions about the extent to which Mr. Trump's conflicts of interest and other problems are affecting his transition are compromising the use of taxpayer funds," they wrote at the time.

Warren has previously paired with other Democratic lawmakers to request a variety of probes into the Trump campaign and White House, including questioning the OGE about Ivanka Trump's role and the cost of Trump's security at Mar-a-Lago.