Vladimir Putin has challenged warmongers in the US once again—not with missiles or threats, but with practical reason. The war party has been beating regime change in Syria and North Korea for months now, but Putin again has something to say to them. He has recently said:

“We need to return to dialogue with the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, stop intimidating it and find ways to solve these problems peacefully. Is it possible or not? I think it is possible.”[1]

I think it’s possible as well. The fact is that warmongers don’t want dialogue. They don’t want to control their impulses by practical reason. They don’t want to submit their will to the moral and political order.

As Putin put it, “Unfortunately, all the negotiators did not have enough patience.”[2] No, they do not. They want to expand the military industrial complex at the expense of decent Americans. They want to kill; they want to shed innocent blood; they want to butcher men, women and babies for the state of Israel, and they want to make no apology for this diabolical manifestation.

The person who saw that diabolical manifestation back in 1979 was the Ayatollah Khomeini. International Zionism, said Khomeini then, is using the United States to plunder the oppressed people of the world.

“There is no crime America will not commit in order to maintain its political, economic, cultural, and military domination of those parts of the world where it predominates. It exploits the oppressed people of the world by means of the large-scale propaganda campaigns that are coordinated for it by international Zionism. By means of its hidden and treacherous agents, it sucks the blood of the defenseless people as if it alone, together with its satellites, had the right to live in this world.”[3]

“Khomeini was here referring to Iraq, which had already launched a full-scale attack on Iran, as the proxy of America and Israel. Khomeini was hoping for Islamic unity, but he found neither sympathy nor allies in the Islamic world. Pakistan, which was a Saudi asset, had already been seduced by Saudi and American money and recruited into the final campaign of the anti-Communist crusade, when their ISI stepped forward as the exclusive arms brokers for the mujahideen in Afghanistan.”[4]

International Zionism is still using the United States to oppress people and assault the moral and political order, and this is why people of good will are reacting to it. Putin added: “Violent overthrows of regimes and invasions in other countries provoke an arms race.”[5]

[1] “Putin Addresses Participants of the Belt and Road Investment Forum in Beijing,” Sputnik News, May 15, 2017.

[3] Quoted in E. Michael Jones, “The Great Satan and Me: Reflections on Iran and Postmodernism’s Faustian Pact,” Culture Wars, July/August 2015.

[5] “Putin Addresses Participants of the Belt and Road Investment Forum in Beijing,” Sputnik News, May 15, 2017