Alright class, let’s begin today with a quick show of hands. How many people in here today ever thought they wold see the day when the balding, despotic, pocket Stalin wanna be of a President of Russia would show more compassion, caring, and grace than the current President of the United States? Anybody?

Well, it just happened, and if this doesn’t make you hang your head in shame, then I don’t no what will. American exceptionalism my ass. Quoting from CNN, in responding to the terrorist attack in London that left 7 dead, Putin made his feelings clear in a phone call to  British Prime Minister Theresa May;

Sweet Jeebus, Putin almost comes off sounding like an actual, dues paying member of the Heads of State Club! Forget the fact that practically everybody from the US on down has been begging him for help fighting Daesh in Syria since he's got troops and planes and shit in there already anyway, he comes across as sounding concerned and sincere. And the kind, caring, empathetic response from our own Orange Two Legged Stool? Here it is, in all of it’s pristine Twitter glory;

Wow, I think he just sealed the deal for his upcoming Humanitarian of the Year award. And nothing says caring like a tweet. I guess he kind of forgot that that stupid Android thingy actually has a dial tone feature on it. You know, you can like talk with your mouth and shit? But God forbid that this Orange planetary disgrace shouldn’t have a brilliant second thought 12 hours later at, wait for it, 4:30 a.m.;

Oh, my Lord and all the little fishes. And to think that this is what his followers love about him, his shake things up, take no shit, me, me, me attitude. I wonder how they’d feel if the shoe was on the other foot, if someone showed up at a close family members funeral and said “I’m sorry for your loss, but I’ve told you before that this is what happens when you get behind the wheel smashed to the gills”? And he also bloviated like a drunken bigot with a couple of more tweets which I won’t include here out of decency, including a cheap plug for his stupid fucking travel ban.

What I would like to know is just exactly what Trump is thinking here. Every US Mayor from New York, to Boston, to Orlando, to San Bernardino has slammed the terrorists, and exhorted their citizens to stand tall, “We have the best police in the world and they performed magnificently”, and “Don’t let the terrorists win”, and “Stay vigilant, but go about your lives, there is no need to panic, and we’re here to protect you”. What did His Lowness want the Mayor of London to say; “Holy shit! Everybody hide under the beds, and we’re closing down all hunting and cutlery stores until further notice!”? I wonder if the fact that the Mayor of London is a Muslim might have any bearing on Hair Furor’s thinking here.

Look, this is not in the slightest bit funny for so many reasons, but how about this one. We’ve all been having a grand old time writing about how the Democrats can just sit back, stay out of the way, and let Trump sink the GOP with him, they deserve it. *Spoiler Alert* Vladimir Putin is right now doing the same goddamn thing writ large on the international stage. Forget the fact that he’ll fuck with your elections, arrest protesters who don’t like him, have rivals gunned down in front of the Kremlin, and patting Assad on the head while he bombs his citizens. Right now he’s showing up at the hospital in a 3 piece suit, with flowers for the family, and a kiss on the cheek, while Trump clomps in wearing the diplomatic version of dirty khaki hiking shorts and unlaced combat boots, with a six pack of Old Frothingshlosh beer under his arm.

How about a quick international disaster reunion tour. In nine days last month, this sniveling cretin showed his myriad wrinkles in the glow of the “Disney-attraction-magical-orb-of-

 Anubis (available at the Abu Dhabi gift shop for $39.99, batteries not included), pretty much signed the death warrant for an Israeli intelligence asset with Bibi Netanyahu standing next to him, made the Pope of the Catholic Church want to pull his cape up over his face for the photographs, threatened to dun our closest allies in Brussels over their tardy dues to the Trump/NATO Country Club, and left the Prime Minister of freakin’ Montenegro looking at him like he was a roach on the kitchen counter top after he elbowed the poor guy out of the way to get to the front row for a photograph. And last week he took his ball and went home over a non binding, voluntary agreement on climate change.

You know, it’s bad enough that this Nightmare on Orange Street has already wreaked damage on our most precious international European alliance that will take years to repair, and which aids Putin in his grand scheme, bad enough that it is Germany’s Chancellor Angela Merkel who is now referred to as “Leader of the Free World” with France’s Macron running a close second, and allowing China to take over as the responsible environmental Super power by pulling out of the Paris climate accord. All of this is bad enough, and should be alarming to all Americans.

But when you risk letting a repulsive, repressive thug like Valdimir Putin start to look like look like a world leader in kindness and moral decency, you’re not just abdicating our place as the shining light and leader of the western world, you’re coming dangerously close to joining the International Leaders Assholes Club, with world treasures like Bashar al Assad, and Kim Jong Un. And there isn’t a damn thing you and I can do about it my dear brothers and sisters, except to not travel internationally, so we don’t have to wear funny clothes and speak with cheap, phony accents. Can I pleeeeeeeeeeease not be Great Again now?