Former White House adviser Steve Bannon was interviewed on "60 Minutes" on Sunday, and there was one moment that made it crystal clear how he's managed to fool so many people into thinking he knows so much about America.

It was this quote:

"America's built on our citizens. Look at the 19th century. What built America is called the American System. From Hamilton to Polk to Henry Clay to Lincoln to the Roosevelts. A system of protection of our manufacturing, financial system that lends to manufacturers and a control of our borders."

Bannon was responding to the idea (from his interviewer, Charlie Rose) that America was built by immigrants. And his response, without context, sounds impressive. He sounds like a man with clear conviction who not only knows history but also has a clear way of interpreting and connecting the past to the future. It seems like heady stuff.

But of course, the context is very real, and reality has a way of asserting itself in history.

With the proper context, Bannon's statement is word salad — a cherry-picked version of events that ignores some real drivers of American history. You can pick out the basic inconsistencies if you want to — like the fact that Alexander Hamilton was an immigrant, for example. But the scope of Bannon's misinformation is grander than that. He's talking about an America that doesn't exist.

But he says it with conviction, and people like that.

The way Bannon tells it, America has had a winning game plan from the beginning — a combination of nationalism, federal government, and business coordination through which it has achieved greatness throughout history. This is what he calls the American System.

And there was an American System, but it wasn't an ideology passed down from president to president. In fact, American presidents and legislators fought against it throughout its brief life in the 19th century.

The American System was a set of ideas formed by the legendary Kentucky politician Sen. Henry Clay. After the War of 1812 he convinced Americans that there should be a harmonious relationship among tariffs protecting American goods, the national bank (Hamilton's brain child), and infrastructural and agricultural development. From 1816 to about 1828 it seemed everyone was on board to a certain extent, and Congress passed legislation supporting this thesis.

This time of national unity is what people is called the Era of Good Feelings, and for good reason. High off of their victory against the British, Americans believed they could do pretty much anything.

That all ended with the election of President Andrew Jackson, whom both Trump and Bannon revere. Jackson hated Clay's American System because he thought it was an overreach of the federal government, and he did as much as he could to dismantle it.

In doing so, Jackson ultimately set the stage for one of the worst financial crises in American history: the Panic of 1837. To champion his ideas, Clay broke with Jackson and formed the Whig party, which would ultimately die in just a few decades.

The American System as Bannon describes it is his own fantasy. In reality it was not a grand overarching thesis of American governance. It didn't make it anywhere near President Roosevelt (either of them). In fact if it were a person, it wouldn't have even gotten old enough to drive a car. Bannon likes to take the simple and overlay it over the complicated to create a narrative that suits him. When you do that you lose a lot — most important, you lose the truth.

Back to the "60 Minutes" quote, because it's actually astonishing how much history Bannon throws away in just a few sentences.

Here are a few more American complications Bannon prefers not to grapple with.

That's not even all the delusion Bannon managed to pack into that quote. Again, if I weren't so horrified, I would be impressed — and some people are. When you talk to people who know Bannon or work for him they'll tell you breathlessly that he's incredibly smart. They'll tell you that his office and car are filled with books — sometimes two copies of the same one even, if you can imagine it. They're being fooled, too.

The point is, this stuff is complicated. But we know from the way Bannon sees history that he doesn't like things complicated at all. Back in February, I wrote about his obsession with "The Fourth Turning: What Cycles of History Tell Us About America's Next Rendezvous with Destiny."

The book argues that the history of a people moves in 80- to 100-year cycles called "saecula." Within those saecula are four shifts, which ultimately end in "ekpyrosis," a cataclysmic event that destroys the old order and brings in a new one in a trial of fire.

This is how Bannon organizes a complicated world in his head. And in a way — if you remove the whole world-burning thing — you've actually got a really comforting thought here. You have a map of history that tells you how things work and where things are going to go. Of course, any historian will tell you that it's nonsense, that history is a dynamic conversation of complicated events that produce outcomes that are interpreted and reinterpreted to make sense of the present.

But that's not comforting — that's chaos. And that's not what worried people trying to make sense of their own worlds want to read on the internet. Bannon would have you believe that American identity is simple — that there is a clear line of logic throughout our history and that if we could just get back to that perfect place, we'll be OK again. It's a comforting thought, but it's wrong. Moreover, it's why white nationalists and neo-Nazis are attracted to him, so it's also dangerous.

Now to be fair, none of this is to say that Bannon is being purposely malicious in his misunderstanding of history. In fact, it's very likely he's fooled himself harder than anyone else. It's always tragic when that happens.