In case you didn’t think racism is bad enough in the US, now we have active military people publicly supporting a white supremacist hate group. White supremacist terrorists have been getting media attention for hate crimes the last couple weeks in Portland, OR, Bowie MD,  and Clearlake CA.

Two active-duty U.S. Marines were arrested for their part in a pro-Confederate/white supremacist rally last week in North Carolina.

Sgt. Michael Chesny and Staff Sgt. Joseph Manning were arrested for trespassing after draping a white nationalist banner over a building in downtown Graham during a May 20 demonstration, reported the Times-News.

The pair unfurled a banner that quoted George Orwell’s “1984” — “He who controls the past controls the future” — and the letters, “YWNRU,” which stands for “you will not replace us,” a slogan linked to the white nationalist group Identity Evropa.

A white supremacist hate group, according to The Southern Poverty Law Center and the ADL, Evropa is led by Nathan Damigo, an ex-marine who only served 1 year in prison after being convicted of armed robbery of a taxi driver. He apparently robbed him because he thought the driver was Iraqi.

The group has gained followers in recent years by blanketing dozens of college campuses with white supremacist literature.

The Marines claimed they had gone to the rally to record video of protesters from the Industrial Workers of the World to prove the social group wasn’t peaceful.

Even more concerning is the fact that these men could have the ability to steal explosives from their employer.

Chesny is as an explosive ordnance disposal technician based at Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point, and Manning serves in the Marine Corps Engineer School at Camp Lejeune.

The marines were both charged with first-degree trespassing, a misdemeanor offense, and released on $1,000 bond the same day as their arrest.

Military personnel are also investigating the incident.

In 2009, The U.S. Marine Corps updated its policies in 2009 to prohibit active advocacy for “supremacist doctrine, ideology or causes” that deprive others of civil rights. These are the exact things the pair were supporting.

 

 (Article By Jeremiah Jones)