Conservative author and commentator Ann Coulter spoke at this past weekend’s Politicon, where she addressed marijuana usage in the United States.

Saying that cannabis is “destroying the country,” Coulter noted that the drug also “makes people retarded.”

Coulter sat down and debated the topic of marijuana with Ana Kasparian of The Young Turks when she made the controversial comments.

Speaking about marijuana possession prosecutions, Kasparian said, “I don’t care if you’re black, white, Asian, Latino—doesn’t matter. You shouldn’t be prosecuted for marijuana possession. That’s a gigantic waste of our resources.”

Coulter, however, wasn’t on board with Kasparian’s comments.

Referencing a study that she allegedly read, which claimed that African Americans “lie” about marijuana usage more than any other race in the U.S.

“There have been further studies where they actually drug test the person after asking ‘Do you smoke pot, or have you smoked pot in the last week?’ and it turns out there’s a racial difference in telling the truth on ‘Did you smoke pot’? Blacks were about 10 times more likely to lie and say they hadn’t smoked pot,” Coulter said, attempting to back up her understanding of the alleged study — a study that she was unable to verify when put on the spot.

Floundering for an explanation, Coulter told the moderator that she would “email” him the study when she found it.

Changing gears, Coulter claimed that no suspects arrested for marijuana possession ever actually see any jail time.

“No, I know you’re all potheads, and you’re gonna have trouble following what I’m about to say, but almost 90 percent of people in prison are in prison as a result of a plea bargain,” she explained. “No one gets arrested and tried for possession of marijuana. But if they happen to have marijuana on them that’s what they plea it down. But you’re not going to prison for that, you’re going to prison because you held up a liquor store with a sawed-off shotgun, and they found pot on you.”

Further egged on by Kasparian and the moderator, Coulter was asked whether or not she thought marijuana should be recreationally legalized in the United States, and that’s when she threw down the gauntlet.

“No,” she answered. “You can legalize all the drugs you want once there isn’t a welfare state, but no. Marijuana makes people retarded, especially when they’re young. We’ve got enough busboys. We’re bringing in busboys by the million through our immigration policy. We do not need a country of busboys. We’re destroying the country.”

See the panel on marijuana, featuring Coulter, in the video below.