Do you believe in life after Obamacare? I don’t know about you, but I can feel something inside me say that I really don’t think Cher’s strong enough.

That “something” is actually Cher’s Twitter feed, which was home to a Chernobyl-style meltdown after the Republicans managed to pass the amended American Health Care Act through the House of Representatives. Apparently, in spite of being one of the most inexplicably famous singers and actresses on the planet, Cher wants you to know she can’t pay for her asthma medication.

Twitter wasn’t buying it, though — and they let her have it, bigly.

This was the first tweet from the 70-year-old “I Got You Babe” singer:

Now, I know that Cher is a board-certified physician who’s spent many years poring over documents pertaining to the American health care system as part of her role with several public policy think-tanks, but I can’t help but notice her argument sounds a bit more like the incoherent screeching and fear-mongering that’s been coming from the left on social media ever since the bill passed.

Did it stop there? Of course not. After all, there are 1,851 emojis in the Unicode system, so why stop until you’ve used every last one?

Actually, I think Trump is more of a Brahms fan.

All of this sanctimonious nonsense that completely oversimplifies and fear-mongers about how the AHCA distributes and regulates costs arising from pre-existing conditions — and what constitutes a pre-existing condition — is bad enough when it comes from HuffPo and BuzzFeed reporters. After all, what they write may be wrong, but you can’t say that it won’t have some sort of impact on them.

However, in Cher’s case, her net worth is reported to be $320 million. While one wonders how accurate that figure is, unless she’s been joyriding in the back seat of a hired Bentley limousine since Election Day, chugging a bottle of Veuve Clicquot every hour on the hour, it’s safe to say she has enough to pay for her own damn asthma coverage without Washington enforcing regulations that price working-class Americans out of the health care market.

The denizens of Twitter — many of whom probably couldn’t afford their health care coverage, thanks to Obamacare — were more than happy to point this out.

Please like and share on Facebook and Twitter if you think Cher is full of it.