The White House chief of staff issued an emotional defense on his boss’ behalf on Thursday, condemning critics and saying that Trump did the best he could when calling the widow of a slain Army sergeant.

“If you’re not in the family, if you have never worn the uniform, if you have never been in combat, you can’t imagine how to make that phone call,” former Marine general John Kelly said during a surprise press briefing at the White House.

Trump has faced intense criticism for his comments on a phone call to the widow of Sgt. LaDavid Johnson, one of four Americans killed two weeks ago in Niger.

“There’s no perfect way to make that phone call,” Kelly said, adding that he advised Trump against making the call in the first place.

Pentagon team dispatched to Niger for basic clues on troop ambush

Rep. Frederica Wilson (D-Fla.) said Trump took an insensitive tone with Johnson’s widow, Myeshia, when he called her on Tuesday.

Trump said that Johnson “knew what he signed up for” and seemingly forgot the sergeant’s name during the call, according to Wilson.

The President denied the claims on Wednesday, calling them “fabricated” and said he had proof of such.

Speaking to reporters later, he declined to indicate what he actually said or what proof he had.

Trump did 'disrespect my son' and his wife, soldier's mom says

Kelly described how he personally directed the President on what to say — and what he was told when his son Robert was killed in combat in Afghanistan.

“In his way tried to express that opinion. He’s a brave man, a fallen hero. He knew what he was getting to it. He enlisted,” the four-star general said. “It’s where he wanted to be, exactly where he wanted to be with exactly the people he wanted to be with when his life was taken.

“That was the message. That was the message that was transmitted,” he added.

Kelly shielded Trump from criticism, recalling what his best friend, Gen. Joe Dunford, now Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff had told him.

“He knew what he was getting into by joining that one percent. He knew what the possibilities were, because we were at war,” he said.

The line, “he knew what he was getting in to,” sparked heated criticism after Wilson appeared on several news programs and blasted Trump.

Kelly said he was appalled that Wilson even listened in on the call, which was on speakerphone.

“It stuns me that a member of Congress would have listened in on that conversation,” he said. “ Absolutely stuns me.”

He said he was left “broken hearted” by the criticism of Trump’s outreach to Gold Star families.

A day earlier, White House spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders said that several people were in the room with Trump as he made the call.

Trump dug the hole of a controversy deeper when he brought up the loss of Kelly’s son as part of an attack on former President Barack Obama, placing the family’s searing loss in the heart of a very public political fight.

Trump, asked whether he’d yet called the families of the soldiers killed in Niger told a Fox News host, “You could ask Gen. Kelly, did he get a call from Obama?”

Kelly addressed his own loss during his comments Thursday and said he told Trump he did not receive a call from President Obama when his son was killed in 2010.

“That is not a criticism,” Kelly said, saying that phone calls from his members of his son’s unit were more important.