A lawsuit alleging President Trump's family businesses unlawfully accept money from foreign officials is based on "speculative fears" and should be tossed, his lawyers argued Wednesday.

The civil suit in Manhattan Federal Court claims Trump is in violation of the Constitution because his extensive business empire's acceptance of foreign government money flouts a ban on gifts and emoluments — financial perks to a sitting President.

Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, a good government group, sued in January and was later joined by high-profile hospitality bigs.

They claim foreign governments will want to patronize Trump's hotels and restaurants to get in his good graces, putting competitors at a disadvantage.

New York, other states sue to halt Trump's Obamacare cuts

U.S. Department of Justice lawyer Brett Shumate is pushing for Manhattan Federal Judge George Daniels to toss the case.

They say those suing Trump haven't proven their alleged injuries are anything besides "abstract disagreements with the government and speculative fears about competition."

"They can't show an increase in competition," Shumate said. "The President is not controlling access to the market. The President is a market participant."

Shumate also claimed that the Founding Fathers were not worried about officials' involvement in private business when framing the Constitution, saying George Washington and Thomas Jefferson had businesses while serving as president.

N.Y. will sue to block Trump tax reform plan if it passes: Cuomo

"We're not talking about George Washington or Thomas Jefferson," Daniels responded, saying that the Founding Fathers' lack of concern doesn't impact legal interpretations of emoluments.

Deepak Gupta, a lawyer repping CREW and others suing the President, said hospitality businesses in New York City and Washington, D.C., are engaged in cutthroat competition - including against the President's businesses.

"What our clients can't offer is the ability to curry favor with the President of the United States," Gupta said. "Diplomats are bragging that they're going to the President's hotel(s) to curry favor with him."

"It is not a provision to protect competition,” Daniels said of their arguments about emoluments and unfair competition. “It is an anti-corruption provision."

Daniels said he would try to make a decision within the next 30 to 60 days.