Q: I met a Chinese woman who was visiting New Jersey. If she comes back to the United States and we decide to marry, can I get her a green card? She doesn’t speak English and I don’t speak Chinese but we communicate using a phone app.

After her visit, the woman returned to Shanghai. I visited her there and we had a great time. She is planning to come back to the United States, but doesn't know of my plans to propose.

A: Yours is certainly a modern romance! If you marry, you can petition for your wife and she can apply simultaneously for her immigrant visa. Get the forms and filing instructions at uscis.gov or by calling (800) 870-3676.

People with DACA should speak to an immigration law expert ASAP

As with all marriage green card cases, you must prove that your marriage is bona fide or "real." Since you cannot speak to each other without help from a translation app, make an extra effort to prove the marriage is bona fide. Proof of your trip to Shanghai, such as a boarding pass or photos of you together there, should help. Given the unusual facts in your case, try to bring a legal representative with you to the green card interview.

Q: I am a U.S. citizen and I want to bring my stepchildren here from Guyana. They are under 21. Do children from Guyana have an unusually long wait or is the wait the same as for other immigrants?

A: If your stepchildren are unmarried, the only wait for them to get an immigrant visa is the processing time, typically about a year. Stepchildren qualify as "children" if the marriage between the biological parent and the stepparent took place before the child turned 18.

Dreamers need not panic over Trump's plan to end DACA

Unlike for many family immigrants, the law does not limit the number of "immediate relatives" of U.S. citizens who can immigrate every year. That means they get their green cards separate from the green card quota system. The immediate relative category includes the spouse, unmarried children under 21 and the parent of a child 21 or older of a U.S. citizen.

Allan Wernick is an attorney and director of the City University of New York's Citizenship Now project. Send questions and comments to Allan Wernick, New York Daily News, 7th Fl., 4 New York Plaza, New York, N.Y., 10004 or email to questions@allanwernick.com. Follow him on Twitter @awernick.