President Trump drew a fresh volley of criticism from across the political spectrum Sunday for not explicitly denouncing the white nationalists at the center of the violence in Virginia.

Even as the White House issued a statement condemning “white supremacists, KKK, Neo-Nazi and all extremist groups,” critics pounded the President for blaming the “hatred, bigotry and violence on many sides — on many sides.”

Virginia Gov. Terry McAuliffe called on Trump to more strongly condemn those behind the rally that led to the death of 32-year-old Heather Heyer and injured dozens of others.

McAuliffe, who joined worshippers at First Baptist Church in Charlottesville on Sunday, said the President “needs to come out stronger” against the actions of white supremacists.

“They are Nazis and they are here to hurt American citizens, and he needs to call them out for what they are, no question,” he added.

Charlottesville Mayor Michael Signer, a Democrat, said he blamed the nation’s increasing political divisions on Trump’s refusal to disavow the support of such groups.

“Old saying — when you dance with the devil, the devil changes you,” he said on NBC’s “Meet the Press.”

Signer said he believes that Trump, since his days on the campaign trail, has emboldened racists and neo-Nazis across the country.

Survivor returns to site of Heather Heyer's killing for vigil

“I think they made a choice in that campaign, a very regrettable one, to really go to people’s prejudices, to go to the gutter,” he added.

The Daily Stormer, a white supremacist website that promoted the demonstration, praised Trump’s reaction.

“Nothing specific against us,” the website stated. “No condemnation at all. When asked to condemn, he just walked out of the room. Really, really good. God bless him.”

Meanwhile, Gov. Cuomo urged New Yorkers to sign a petition asking Trump to denounce white supremacists.

James Fields Jr. was 'infatuated' with Nazis, former teacher say

“After the deadly and ugly events in Charlottesville, I am calling on President Trump to clearly and unequivocally condemn and denounce the violent protest organized by the white supremacists and neo-Nazis,” Cuomo said in a statement. “This was a terror attack by white supremacists.”

Sen. Cory Gardner (R-Colo.), who chairs the Republican Party’s Senate election effort, speaking before the White House statement was issued also called on Trump to amend his language.

“Calling out people for their acts of evil — let’s do it today — white nationalist, white supremacist,” Gardner said on CNN’s “State of the Union” program on Sunday. “We will not stand for their hate.”