Bias: Say what you want about President Trump's insulting tweets about MSNBC's Mika Brzezinski, they've at least given the press something anti-Trump to obsess about other than Russia. But it isn't likely to last.

CNN has been taking its share of hits for its relentless coverage of the "nothingburger" Trump-Russia story. But it's not the only media outlet suffering from Trump-Russia OCD.

One of the interesting revelations in the Project Veritas undercover video of CNN Producer John Bonifield was when he described the networks' fixation with the Russia "scandal." The other was that CNN sees itself as small potatoes next to the Big Three network news programs.

"I mean NBC News still gets 20 million viewers a night. Cable news is getting a million," he said.

Like any untreated obsessive disorder, the Russia fixation led CNN to make embarrassing mistakes, the latest of which led to the departure of three CNN employees and a stern memo to reporters ordering them to clear all future Russia stories through higher channels.

Unfortunately, it turns out that the major networks suffer the same affliction.

An analysis by the Media Research Center found that from May 17 through June 20, the big three networks devoted 353 minutes of their precious airtime to the Russia story — equal to more than half the networks' total Trump coverage over those weeks.

By comparison, the networks spent just 47 minutes of their Trump coverage on stories involving climate change, 17 minutes on ObamaCare, only five minutes on jobs and the economy, and less than one minute on tax reform. And as we know from other research, almost all the coverage of Trump has been negative.

And for what? All this investigative work, all the supposed "bombshell" stories, and all the time and energy have been spent on a story that isn't actually going anywhere. There's still not a shred of evidence that Trump or his campaign officials were involved in Russia's attempts to interfere with the election outcome.

In fact, as we pointed out in this space recently, the only real scandals in evidence so far involve actions by Obama administration officials to discredit Trump after he won the election. But those scandals, of course, get little to no attention from the mainstream press.

Even if Project Veritas can't get a network executive to unwittingly admit the real goal of the media's Trump-Russia obsession, it should be obvious to everyone: to delegitimize Trump's victory.

The press didn't want or expect Trump to win. And when he did, they went looking for reasons other than voters' desire for stronger economic growth and safer streets. Democrats helpfully provided reporters with a juicy target, making unsupported accusations that Trump colluded with Russia, while bandying around a phony dossier to give the story credence.

But while the constant barrage of negative news stories has succeeded in driving Trump's numbers down, it hasn't helped the press' reputation. The latest Gallup survey finds that just 24% of the public have confidence in TV news. Even the presidency, under Trump, does better in this survey, at 32%.

The June IBD/TIPP poll finds that 57% agree that the media have "prematurely declared President Trump and his allies guilty of collusion with Russia" despite a lack of evidence.

A Harvard-Harris poll found that a majority of voters believe the Russia investigations are damaging to the country and want Congress to shift its focus to mundane things like health care, terrorism, national security, the economy and jobs.

This is bad for everyone. A free press plays a vital role in the success of our democracy, but with that great power comes a great responsibility to be fair and accurate.

Over the past six months, the mainstream media have shown no responsibility even as they constantly lecture us about how important they are.

The Russia Worm Is Starting To Turn On Trump Conspiracy-Mongers