In its recently released 2017 Environmental Responsibility Policy, U.S. Bancorp (USB) emphatically declared, apparently for the first time in this report, that it does not provide project financing for oil or natural gas pipelines. Additionally, the bank noted that its relationships with clients in the pipeline business would be subject to "enhanced due diligence."

As a private company, the bank is certainly entitled to make its own business judgments. And presumably, it feels that this policy is in the best interests of its shareholders and is environmentally friendly. But I wonder if the advocates for such a position, the decision-makers at the bank, and those who have applauded the bank's action, realize the counterproductive implications of this blanket approach.

For decades, politicians have bemoaned the crumbling state of American infrastructure. Even today, in our hyperpartisan political environment, infrastructure is one of the few issues that seems to unite Democrats and Republicans. And this bipartisan recognition doesn't just apply to the most visible projects — roads, bridges and airports, but also to the less visible ones like energy pipelines and transmission lines.

In 2015, the Obama Administration's Energy Department published its first Quadrennial Energy Review (QER). The report summarized that while the U.S. had become the world's largest supplier of oil and natural gas, the country's energy infrastructure was antiquated and crumbling.

It noted that close to 50% of the nation's natural gas transmission and gathering pipelines, for instance, were built in the 1950s and 1960s, and that the need for natural gas interstate pipeline investment would range between $2.6 billion and $3.5 billion per year between 2015 and 2030, depending on the overall level of natural gas demand.

The White House has also emphasized the need to focus on infrastructure development. Besides greenlighting the Keystone and Dakota Access pipeline projects, the Trump administration has also acted to expedite and encourage other energy infrastructure.

This May, a bipartisan group of senators sponsored a bill to establish an infrastructure-financing authority to help states leverage private funds to modernize their transportation and energy infrastructure.

Finally, we have seen a bipartisan push among lawmakers and outside groups to appoint new commissioners and ensure a functioning Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, which is the entity responsible for approving infrastructure projects.

Policymakers and analysts from across the political spectrum are in favor of encouraging new and improved energy infrastructure for several reasons.

First, new pipelines are an essential component of the shale revolution in the U.S., allowing abundant natural gas to flow into the marketplace. The newly tapped natural gas resources have been the prime reason that greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions have fallen more in the U.S. than in any other country since 2006. U.S. GHG emissions from the electric utility sector have declined to the lowest level since 1988. They have also created countless jobs and other economic activity.

Second, oil pipelines offer a better environmental alternative than other forms of transportation. Without pipelines, we not only lack the means to transport fuel in a safe and environmentally conscious manner, but we shift the burden to other forms of infrastructure like road and rail, putting additional strain on an already overburdened system.

According to research conducted by the Manhattan Institute, sourcing data from the Transportation Department's Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, pipeline transportation results in significantly fewer safety incidents than other alternatives. Hazardous liquid and natural gas pipelines record 0.58 and 0.89 incidents per billion ton-miles, respectively, compared to rail transportation at 2.08 incidents and road at 19.95 incidents.

Third, pipelines lower energy prices. It costs significantly less to transport oil and gas by pipeline, and those savings get passed through to American consumers.

A few years ago, the Congressional Research Service noted that rail transport for North Dakota crude oil was costing about $5 to $10 more than transportation by pipeline. In a recent study, ICF International focused on three natural gas pipeline projects in different regions and concluded that "these projects are projected to result in substantial savings associated with lower gas supply costs … as well as greater savings to the broader group of energy consumers in the markets served by the pipelines." ICF estimated total savings could reach over $3 billion.

Many activists believe that we don't need any of these projects because we don't need fossil fuels. But the reality is much different. Fossil fuels have provided more than 80% of America's energy consumption for over 100 years.

According to EIA, petroleum consumption has increased in each of the last four years; natural gas consumption has increased in nine of the last 10 years. Even as the share of renewables continues to grow, there will be an ongoing need to modernize and build new infrastructure.

There is room to have a productive discussion about the best way to incorporate advanced safety and environmental protections into new, economically viable projects.

But it is certainly not helpful, nor does it demonstrate leadership, to highlight a blanket opposition to pipelines and other energy projects as a purported badge of honor — especially by a bank that provides credit card services to many of the government agencies that are charged with modernizing our country's energy infrastructure.