WASHINGTON, D.C. – Former reality TV star and American businessman Donald Trump, Jr. was awarded the Medal of Honor during a private ceremony in the Rose Garden last weekend, White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders announced on Monday.

“Don, Jr. has displayed exemplary courage and resolve in the face of repeated and unprovoked attacks against his character by the fake news media,” said Huckabee Sanders, who added that President Trump made his decision to bestow the military’s highest combat award upon his son after watching what he perceived to be “unfair” media coverage of a meeting between Trump, Jr. and a Russian lawyer with links to the Kremlin.

A senior White House official who spoke to The Washington Post on condition of anonymity because they share an office with Anthony Scaramucci said President Trump promoted his eldest son to the rank of Lieutenant General moments before the start of the Medal of Honor ceremony. “This was something that was done out of respect for protocols set forth by the Department of the Army,” the official told The Post, adding that while Trump, Jr. was not afforded the powers associated with his new rank, he is expected to serve in an “advising capacity” on future military operations.

“War is always changing; it’s always evolving,” argued retired Air Force colonel David Lenier. “We had the War on Drugs, the War on Terror, and now, in 2017, we have the War on Journalism.” Colonel Lanier, who made a brief appearance on Fox & Friends Monday morning, called Trump’s War on Journalism a legitimate and just war. “I believe his legacy will be largely determined by how well this administration is able to wage the War on Journalism,” the colonel said.

Journalists and members of the media were barred from attending Sunday’s ceremony where President Donald Trump spoke at length about his son’s selfless sacrifices in the War on Journalism. “The American people owe you their gratitude for having the guts to stand up against fake news,” an official quoted President Trump as saying. The official described the ceremony as “reserved”, saying the guest list was limited to select family members, senior White House staff, and prominent Fox News anchor Sean Hannity.