WASHINGTON, D.C. – President Donald J. Trump is said to have levitated nearly three feet in the air during an Oval Office prayer session with evangelical leaders on Monday, according to several people who attended the meeting.

The incident, which was broadcast live on Facebook by Florida televangelist Paula White, occurred shortly after 2 p.m. when President Trump, accompanied by his son-in-law, Jared Kushner, and Vice President Mike Pence, convened with a small group of pastors in the Oval Office for a prayer meeting. “[President Trump] was in great spirits, as was the vice president,” recalled Johnnie Moore, a former senior VP at Liberty University. Moore said a similar prayer meeting was held for President Obama but that things were “different” with President Trump.

“As soon as people placed their hands on him and began to pray, his body appeared to rise off the floor,” the faith leader recalled. President Trump, who considers himself Presbyterian, allegedly began to repeat the phrase, “Tibi, magnum innominandum, signa stellarum nigarum et bufoniformis Sadoquae sigillum!” – Latin for, “To you, the great not-to-be-named one, signs of black stars and the seal of the toad-shaped Tsathoggua!” – while his body remained suspended in mid-air.

At the same time, Jared Kushner, who was standing opposite President Trump, unsheathed an antique Russian Khan-Putinjali dagger from his belt and used it to slit the throat of a live pig, spilling blood onto the Oval Office floor. “Jared’s eyes were burning red and he was speaking in tongues,” Jack Graham, pastor of Prestonwood Baptist Church in Plano, Texas, told Fox News. “In all my years, I have never seen anything like that,” said Graham, who added that Vice President Pence turned “paler than usual” and immediately fainted.

Throughout the ordeal, witnesses say the lights flickered sporadically and a stench of feces began to permeate the Oval Office. “I remember thinking that it felt like the room was getting smaller,” recalled senior White House aide Marty Stratton, who said he and others watched in horror as a fiery pentagram scorched itself into the Oval Office rug’s Presidential Seal. Stratton said the event, which lasted “no more than three or four minutes,” ended abruptly. “The lights came back on and everything appeared normal,” he told Real News Right Now.

President Trump, who tried to remain out of the spotlight after his return from Europe last week, invited religious leaders to join him in the Oval Office on Monday following a planned meeting with representatives from the Office of Public Liaison.