In a strange turn of events, as dramatic as the full 32 fouettes from Swan Lake, (the guy can be nimble) Donald Trump asked for a pardon from President Hillary Clinton.

Investigators, using forensic software and working similar to diligent termites since the election, were able to tweeze their way through the records of voting machines in Pennsylvania, Michigan and Wisconsin, discovering that about 70,000 registered Democrats in the three states had their collective votes switched from the Democratic candidate to the Republican candidate, with the help of a foreign government, (not Canada).

Trump then secured the election from Hillary Clinton and gain residency of the White House.

When questioned, the Democratic voters signed affidavits to confirm that they had voted Democratic, though voting records indicated their vote had been switched to Trump. Many voters still retained the numbered receipts torn from the top of their voting ballot.

The government investigation operated similar to a real witch-hunt resulting in Trump's removal from office, to be followed by possible criminal action, as he colluded with the Russians, (not Canada). Thus the his need for a pardon. He was also required to repay the treasury for the use of Air Force One on his frequent flights to Florida, in addition to the utility costs while living in the White House.

Before the Hillary visit, Trump went to Vice President Mike Pence who was quickly packing, throwing items into a box together with rolled up socks, books, can food, a gallon of white shoe polish, an open box of raisins brand, underwear, a year supply of Trump Hairspray, and leaving behind copies of Trump's the self-promotional books.

"A pardon? You flunk Civics? We was partners on the ticket. I don't get a promotion. The White House goes to the rightful winner of the election and that's Hillary Clinton. You might try asking lock her up Hillary for a pardon."

"You're not packing any of my books?"

"Try writing The Art of Avoiding A White House Eviction."