The Turkish government has today announced its intention to stop teaching evolution in schools, after Turkish authorities learned that over 64 million Americans elected a reality TV star whose main claims to fame include a chain of failed casinos and the catchphrase “grab ’em by the pussy”. Following a three year study in which Turkish scientists took into account the results of a range of public votes, referendums, and TV viewing habits, experts have concluded that humanity “clearly just isn’t as advanced as we’ve been giving them credit for.”

Despite criticism of the move by scientists at CERN, who have described evolution as “common sense”, Turkish scientists say their findings are water-tight. “The fact is we’ve seen time and time again in recent years that humans just aren’t that smart, and frankly the evidence is becoming too hard to ignore,” said official Turkish ambassador Lindsay Lohan. “Take Britain voting to leave the EU without an actual exit plan, or the Phillipines electing a President who seems to think he’s in a Dirty Harry film, or 49% of Turkey voting against making the illustrious Edrogan their supreme dictator. Even Chimps are smart enough to avoid repeatedly punching themselves in the face like this.”

Turkish authorities also pointed to the Twitter feed of the American President Donald Trump as another compelling piece of evidence that humans never evolved passed apes, citing it as proof that man has never truly mastered complex communication. “Frankly we’re shocked at the parallels between the President’s feed and a monkey mashing at a typewriter,” said one expert, “but even a monkey mashing keys with autocorrect on won’t manage to type nonsense like ‘covfefe’. In fact Donald’s tweets are very similar to what we saw with Coco the signing Gorilla. Much like her, we can see the President has never been able to move past expressing his thoughts in basic rudimentary sentences, like ‘Sad’, ‘No puppet’ or ‘FAKE NEWS’.”

But the key piece of evidence cited by Turkish authorities was the recent attempt by the American government to wind back their climate goals, a move that is guaranteed to lead to a major global catastrophe, just to prop up the coal mining sector for a few more years. “Opposable thumbs are all well and good,” said the head researcher for the report, “but that hardly outweighs humanity’s repeated attempts to destroy the only planet in the known universe that we can survive on. And the fact that many people think Mars – with no soil, running water, or vegetation – is a viable backup plan once earth is destroyed, well that just further proves my point.”

Humanity was not not available for comment in relation to this article, on account of a prior commitment to spend the afternoon leaving racist comments on YouTube makeup tutorials.