I have been reading the Zionist media over the past few days to see what they said about the Putin/Kelly interview. It was quite interesting to observe that they tried very hard not to say that Kelly was incapable of following a rational point.

For example, the LA Times wrote an article entitled: “Megyn Kelly gets outmaneuvered by Vladimir Putin on her NBC premiere ‘Sunday Night.’” The LA Times lamented that it was actually a chance for Kelly and indeed NBC to prove themselves that they are responsible media outlets. But it was a complete disaster for the network and a victory for Russia and the thinking people.

The LA Times declared that Putin “displayed an elusive and ultimately dismissive demeanor toward Kelly.”[1] The Washington Post said similar things. “Kelly,” said the Post, “questioned Putin bluntly and repeatedly about hacking and other controversial topics.”[2]

Nothing could be further from the truth. The LA Times seems to forget that we are no longer living in the early centuries. The Putin/Kelly interview is available for anyone who would like to see it in its entirety.

It is ridiculous to say that Putin was dodging questions and evading serious issues. On the contrary, it was Kelly who couldn’t follow a simple argument. To put it mildly, she was virtually brain dead when Putin asked her serious questions, and even the audience could see that Kelly was hopeless. Even the Rolling Stone, of all places, declared that viewers were unpersuaded by Kelly’s wild accusations. One viewer declared:

“Megyn Kelly got owned by Putin. Every single question she tried to trap him he simply just beat her. Megyn Kelly ruined everything she had.”[3]

Another viewer said: “Watching @megynkelly with Putin reminds me of the #1 negotiation lesson I learned at the UN: moral arguments don’t work with some countries.”[4]

What does that tell us? Simple: New World Order agents and warmongers cannot fool virtually everyone anymore. That again isn’t good news for them at all.

[1] Lorraine Ali, “Megyn Kelly gets outmaneuvered by Vladimir Putin on her NBC premiere ‘Sunday Night,’” LA Times, June 4, 2017.

[2] David Ignatius, “Megyn Kelly saw an aggressive, peeved Vladimir Putin. That behavior could hurt him,” Washington Post, June 2, 2017.

[3] “Megyn Kelly Criticized for Vladimir Putin Interview as He Denies Hacking,” Rolling Stone, June 5, 2017.