Just as a fish does not need a bike, a man does not need a government. Especially not an oppressive one. As it stands, our government is cruel and arbitrary; certainly not free. Ironically, in a form of double speak amidst a flare of smoke and mirrors, statist propaganda has us believing that we live in a free country. When it’s more accurate to say that the government uses the term “freedom” as a distraction to keep people docile and under control. Let the sheep believe they are free and they won’t fight to become free. Meanwhile, covertly fence them in with outdated laws and an oppressive militarized police state, while convincing them it’s all in place for their own “protection.” Easy: Then it just takes care of itself. The conditioning and brain-washing kicks in with just a little boost from cognitive dissonance and soft slavery enslaves itself – statists gonna state. Let’s break it down.

In our country, money is power. Money concentrated in the hands of a few means power concentrated in the hands of a few, and since power tends to corrupt if it goes unchecked, the people must be free to check it, lest tyranny prevails. But because of reason number two in this article, the people are not free to check it; and here we are, slipping into tyranny.

If we lived within a horizontal democracy, we would be free. No masters, no rulers, and hence, no chance for power to become concentrated in the hands of a few. Easier said than done, sure, but nothing worth doing was ever easy. As it stands, it is impossible to live freely within an oligarchic plutocracy. the plutocrats will simply buy up power by creating oppressive laws and “legal” extortion rackets that keep the people without wealth and power in a permanent state of being poor and powerless. Add to that the use of lobbyists and a fiat currency based on debt, and you have a nation of hoodwinked debt slaves under the delusion that they live in a free democratic republic.

I’ve written this one into the ground, but it bears repeating. this particular dead horse needs to be beaten, over and over, until enough people become aware of it for a tipping point to occur. Most of all, police need to become aware of it and make amends for the error of their ways. It begins with changing their minds.

We live in a police state. Bottom line. When the police force is offense-minded, overreaching, and militarized, there is no doubt about it. People are not free if they cannot drive from point A to point B without being harangued and harassed, by threat of violence and force, from an offense-minded cop pushing an immoral extortion racket based on the breaking of a petty law. And all to meet a quota. Sick! And don’t delude yourself for a second that ruining people’s lives over petty speeding tickets or failure to stops is anything close to justice – that’s just your statist brainwashing blinding you from the truth.

And that’s just the tip of the iceberg of the offense-minded police force’s gross overreach of power. They are judge, jury, and executioner in the street way too often these days for any free human’s comfort. Cops have way more power than any single human should have, and no single human should ever have that much power. At least not in a free country.

When taxation is forced, one cannot say they live in a free country. Taxation is not optional in this country, therefore this country is not free. Bottom line. If one decides not to pay their taxes, they are threatened with violence and/or prison if they don’t pay. That is point-blank extortion. And since it is being done by an authoritarian government, it is naked tyranny.

If one feels like paying taxes, then by all means, pay. That’s fair, because that’s voluntary. But if the state is using its monopoly on violence to get money out of you, that is not fair, because that is extortion. It really is that simple. If freedom is primary then voluntarism is paramount.

When the voting system fails, then democracy fails. Or, in our case, the illusion of democracy fails. A voting system must be democratic, and it must be horizontally democratic, if it is going to be effective at preventing entrenched power from corrupting. When it cannot prevent power from becoming entrenched, then it does not work for the freedom of the people, it works toward the control of people. And here we are.

As it stands, we have a “voting” system that works well from bipartisanship, but does not work well for free human beings. The Republican/Democratic debacle we’re all forced into voting for is a tragic failure of monumental proportions. The power of republicans is too entrenched. The power of democrats is too entrenched. They both monopolize votes to the extent that voting other than this bipartisan fiasco is a wasted vote. And a wasted vote does not bode well for a free democracy. Add to that the influence of big money (plutocracy rearing its ugly head yet again), then you have a voting system set to control rather than progress the freedom of the people.

At the end of the day, it comes down to individuals being free to live, love, and prosper without a group of others forcing their values (rules and laws) on them through threat of violence. No masters, no rulers. As Epictetus said, “No man is free, who is not master of himself.”

FALLEN SOLDIER The tyrannical tentacle of the state has caught one of our own. Gary Z McGee is in jail for the petty offense of not pulling over quickly enough. He is now charged with two felonies: Evading arrest and endangering a child, because his son was in the RV.  Living in the most incarcerated country in the world Gary Z McGee is just the latest victim of the prison industrial complex. He faces 2 to 15 years in prison if convicted. So we may be without his words for a while. Please feel free to send him words of your own to P.O. BOX 39 Sierra Blanca, Texas 79851.  As is usual in this system, people with money can bail themselves out and afford proper legal counsel. Unfortunately Gary is not in this category. His bail  amounts to $2,000.00. And the minimum to obtain legal counsel is $1,600.00.  Any donation is greatly appreciated. To send a care package: My care pack.com or 866-643-9557. To put money on his books 866-394-0490. Facility code #5500 booking number 2016016069. If you’d like to contribute to the fund for Gary’s defense Please send money to the following PayPal account: mcgeezfund@gmail.com.

Gary ‘Z’ McGee, a former Navy Intelligence Specialist turned philosopher, is the author of Birthday Suit of God and The Looking Glass Man. His works are inspired by the great philosophers of the ages and his wide awake view of the modern world.

This article (4 Signs We Do Not Live in a Free Country) was originally created and published by Waking Times and is printed here under a Creative Commons license with attribution to Gary ‘Z’ McGee and WakingTimes.com. It may be re-posted freely with proper attribution, author bio, and this statement of copyright.

~~ Help Waking Times to raise the vibration by sharing this article with friends and family…