The View teamed up with Morning Joe to have a Trump bashfest on The View Thursday. Gossipcon brought the story. Joe Scarborough even showed how musically inept he is on the show.

Whoopi, Joy, Mika, and Joe all on the same stage may seem like some kind of sick twisted nightmare, but it became a reality. You can guess what happened. They bashed Trump and the GOP while leaving the Democrats in their bubbles and presuming the Democrats perfect.

Behar started out by mentioning the 10-year run of Morning Joe and the cohosts engagement in an attempt to lure viewers in to make it seem like it wouldn’t be a political bullshit attack. Behar attempted to say that Joe and Mika don’t agree politically, but we know that just because Joe Scarborough used to be a Republican doesn’t mean he is a conservative.

Whoopi Goldberg brought up Trump’s tweets and his previous friendliness towards the couple, asking, “Did it ever occur to you he was going to shift up on you like he had other people?” Brzezinski said, “Absolutely,” and Scarborough explained, “Anybody who knows Donald knows it’s all transactional.” Once you say something bad about him, “we’ll be the worst human beings on the face of the earth,” Scarborough said, also alleging the president has an “obsession with Mika.” The panelists agreed that Trump seems “attracted to her,” and she claimed that he once got “handsy” with her, but didn’t go into details.

They proceeded to gab about how much a bully Trump is despite any legitimate proof aside from some tweets that were designed to get the attention of the press. They said that he’s mean to people and that makes him a bully. They seemed to miss the irony of the statements.

Scarborough said that “This Republican party has never, ever stood up to him. They would be shocked if somebody finally did,” Scarborough said, arguing, “But they won’t do it, because they’re always running scared, and that’s why they own him… It’s not like [Trump’s win and behavior were] a shock. Everybody saw this coming.”

Oh yeah, forget all of the Republicans that continued to campaign against him after he won the election and work against him in Washington. Never mind the ones that bash him overseas.

Retorted Goldberg, “Everybody didn’t see this coming. They didn’t want to see it. Then the bimbo Mika brought up the false Russia story, “I don’t think it looks good, but don’t get ahead of it. I think that’s our challenge.”

Scarborough and Brzezinski were more reserved in going after the Russia investigation.

What do you think of this fiasco?