Newsmax reported Trump’s next move in the staff changes in the White House. President Donald Trump is will be nominating Kirstjen Nielsen, deputy White House chief of staff, to lead the Department of Homeland Security. Yet another good cabinet member.

This is a big deal. This is just more sexism and hatred of women from Trump. How dare he nominate a woman to lead a department?

What’s funny is that she will be leading a department full of Muslims.

The position of Secretary of Homeland Security has been vacant since July when current White House chief of staff John Kelly left for his present position. Four unnamed administration officials confirmed to Politico on Wednesday that Trump would nominate Nielsen, a veteran of the department who served as Kelly’s chief of staff and reportedly has his absolute confidence and support.

There has been no comment from the White House, and Nielsen hasn’t given any response.

This woman would be a great person for the position. She has a very sane head on her shoulders and she knows that America comes first. Nowhere else matters really if you think about an existential crisis.

“She would be the first person to run the department who has actually worked there,” an unnamed person “close to the administration,” told Politico. “She has a deep familiarity.”

Nielsen’s structured way of working has reportedly ruffled some feathers in the White House, but her methods may have improved the efficiency of the chief of staff’s office.

“Gatekeepers are generally not beloved,” Jonathan Hoffman, DHS assistant secretary for public affairs who worked under Nielsen, told Politico in September. “But that’s why it’s an important job.”

As Kelly’s deputy, Nielsen has instituted new policies to cut down on lateness, often canceling meetings if a person turns up late, and forcing out staffers who loiter in the chief of staff’s office.

This newest cabinet member will set the world on fire in the best way if we can set her up for success.

What do you think of this?