Billionaire business mogul and anti-Trump lunatic Mark Cuban actually applauded President Donald Trump Thursday for making a deal with the Democrats, calling it a “really smart” move. Cuban complimenting Trump during an interview with Neil Cavuto is such an unexpected occurrence.

The owner of the NBA’s Dallas Mavericks and star of ABC’s “Shark Tank” said the Wednesday agreement raised the federal debt ceiling and granted money for Hurricane Harvey relief. Cuban was happy that Trump worked with the Democrats, but really it just forced the Democrats to do what he wanted. If the Democrats would have turned him down, they would have been known as the group of Democrats that would rather shut the government down than aid victims of the costliest natural disaster in American history.

“It’s pure classic Donald Trump,” Cuban said. “I thought it was really smart. You know, think about being a salesperson like President Trump is, you want to keep deals alive. The biggest fear a salesperson has is that a deal would die and so working with somebody even it’s only for a short term, even if it’s with the Democrats, it keeps the deal alive and I thought that was very smart.”

Mark Cuban, of course, doesn’t think that Trump’s presidency is going well. He thinks Trump has made mistakes and keeps making them. The swamp is isolating President Trump and he is still beating them. The biggest win he can get is when the wall funding is approved. Once that is approved Trump will win reelection in 2020 very easily.

Cuban believes that Trump is too much of a sales person, but he had one more positive thing to say about him.

“I want to see him succeed,” Cuban said. “I think not being a politician is one of his core strengths and playing to your strengths is something you should always do to get results. So I think going out, and just going to where he can get results regardless of party I think is a huge positive for him. But I think he’s got to demonstrate that, he’s got to show the empathy gene more than just every now and then.”

This is a nice olive branch, but it doesn’t mean the peace will last. Cuban will jump back on the liberal train of bashing Trump when he actually does something that he promised to do.

What do you think of this?