There are 2 LAUSD races and 2 City Council races but EQUALLY IMPORTANT, a terrible ballot measure, Charter Amendment C has been snuck on to the ballot by the police union and cloaked in misleading language about "civilian review."

Groups like the ACLU, Community Coalition, Asian Americans Advancing Justice, Black Women for Wellness, Youth Justice Coalition, BLM, and LA Voice all are vehemently opposed to it. You can read more at https://www.nooncharterc.org/

So it's extra important that you ask all your friends to vote on May 16 and vote against Measure C. 

 You can get started by inviting friends to this Facebook event. Just select “Share” from the drop down menu in the upper right, then choose “Invite Friends.” 

 

 LAT Strong Editorial against Measure C: http://www.latimes.com/opinion/endorsements/la-ed-charter-amendment-c-police-discipline-20170424-story.html



Here's some analysis of Measure C directly from our friends at the ACLU of Southern California:

 

 Charter Amendment C modifies the process for disciplinary appeals at LAPD. Currently, the civilian Police Commission decides whether shootings and other serious uses of force are within policy or not, and the Chief of Police makes recommendations about serious discipline. But if the Chief recommends that an officer be fired, that officer may appeal the decision to a Board of Rights — a panel made up of two command-level LAPD officers and one civilian drawn from a pool of approved. Measure C would give officers who face a board of rights the choice between the current model or a panel drawn from three civilians. This is a self-serving political maneuver orchestrated by the Police Protective League to undermine Chief Beck, not an attempt at real reform. This measure has been driven from the start by a police union unhappy with Chief Beck

 

 1. Doesn’t expand “civilian oversight” because the Board of Rights doesn’t provide oversight, but just approves or waters down the Chief’s recommendations. 

 

 2. Doesn’t provide real community involvement due to selection process for “civilians” on the panel.

 

 3. Will result in even less accountability for LAPD officers because civilians on panels tend to water down punishments for officers. 

 

 4. Will result in increased legal liability for Los Angeles. 

 

 5. Designed to favor officers accused of misconduct because it gives officers their choice of appeal boards and if community advocates are able to strength accountability in the all civilian board system, officers will be able to opt for less accountable system.

 

 CANDIDATE RACES

 (we cannot and do not take positions on races for legal reasons)

 

 LAUSD School Board

 * District 4: run-off between Steve Zimmer and Nick Melvoin 

 * District 6 run-off between Imelda Padilla and Kelly Gonez-Fitzpatrick

 

 City Council 

 * CD1 (Eastside): run-off between Gil Cedillo and Joe Bray-Ali

 * CD7 (Northeast Valley): run-off between Monica Rodriguez v. Karo Torossian