Anthony Scaramucci says if it were up to him, top adviser Steve Bannon would be gone from President Donald Trump's administration.

But the short-lived White House communications director notes, 'it's not up to me.'

The comments came in a Monday appearance on the CBS Late Show with Steven Colbert, a few weeks after 'The Mooch' made a spectacular flameout from his West Wing gig.

Asked if he believed Bannon was a white supremacist, Scaramucci replied: 'I don't think he's a white supremacist though I've never asked him.'

'What I don't like is the toleration of it, for me it's something that should not be tolerated,' Scaramucci continued.

Colbert has seen his ratings soar since Trump's inauguration, with his relentless comedic attacks on the president.

Colbert showed a picture of Scaramucci former White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus glaring at each other.

Scaramucci said there was 'no love lost' between the two.

He said he and Priebus got along well when he was a donor writing checks to the Republican National Committee, which Priebus once led, but that things turned sour after he was offered a role in the White House.

The interview wasn't the first time the famously outspoken Scaramucci slammed Bannon.

This weekend, Scaramucci, blamed Bannon's ideology for some of the president's recent missteps, including Trump's response to the violence in Charlottesville, Virginia on Saturday.

The president was criticized for seemingly equating white nationalists with the antifa and Black Lives Matter groups protesting their planned rally.

Scaramucci blamed Trump's tone deaf response on White House staffers being reluctant to tell him the truth.

'Maybe Ivanka would do that ... maybe Jared [Kushner] would do that, but you've also got this sort of Bannon-bart influence in there, which I think is a snag on the president,' Scaramucci said, mushing together Bannon's name with the publication, Breitbart, which the White House aide formerly ran.

Bannon has battled for West Wing influence with Kushner, Trump's son-in-law and another top advisor.

Also on Monday evening, the New York Times reported that media mogul Rupert Murdoch, a Kushner ally, had met with Trump and urged him to fire Bannon.

Murdoch made his plea during a White House dinner before Trump left for vacation in New Jersey on August 4, before the violence in Charlottesville, according to the Times' unnamed sources.

Trump did not strongly counter Murdoch's advice and expressed frustration with Bannon, the paper said.

Bannon, the former head of ultra conservative outlet Breitbart News, is described as being the nucleus of one of several competing power centers in what has been a chaotic White House.