On Friday, during interviews with several news outlets and while defending Trump’s aggressive and highly personal Twitter rant directed at Mika Brzezinski, Kellyanne Conway made the following claim:

Conway then complained that the media focuses mainly on Trump the man (calling out his poor behavior) and not Trump’s policies. That didn’t jibe with what I’ve seen which is the media being seriously concerned about Trump’s political actions as POTUS. When they do talk about the man, it’s precisely because his personal behavior is affecting not only his own ability to do his job successfully, but also public attitude (worldwide) toward the job itself. In an effort to better understand what was really going on, I took on the unpleasant task of reading all the June tweets at Trump’s Twitter account. As a result I found that Conway’s count was off — she’d given him too much credit — for a very simple reason.

Conway had conflated “policy” with propaganda. Many of Trump’s supposed “policy” Tweets have little to do with policy itself and instead are mainly self-aggrandizing superlatives designed to convince his audience that he’s somehow doing a good job.

Meanwhile, according to the OED, “propaganda” is:

Factual reporting of policy is supposed to inform the reader/viewer about the content and possible effect(s) of the policy. The CBO’s report on Trump’s failed healthcare initiative was a policy report designed to be politically neutral. It still described a deeply destructive piece of legislation, but it wasn’t written in an effort to attack the bill. Media reporting based on the CBO report was again reporting policy. In contrast, Trump standing in the Rose Garden and calling the PPACA a “catastrophe” and his own bill “a great plan” is flat out propaganda. It’s just advertising, and it lacks credibility. Conway (in an interview claiming policy was being ignored) and Trump (on Twitter) both describing constituents as “Obamacare victims” is both inflammatory and just more propaganda. The phrasing is just an attack without any supporting facts provided by the speaker. While you might expect his surrogates to push propaganda, for the POTUS to be engaging in propagandizing weakens his political position. It means that what he says can’t be trusted to be simply factual.

If he ever did, Trump doesn’t really seem to know the difference between policy and propaganda anymore. Trump’s tweets, even those that do mention policy, typically include color commentary designed to drive emotion. He calls actions taken under his watch, “good” “great” “tremendous” “special” or “important”. Polls that support him are “accurate” and those that oppose him are “fake”. He regularly calls opposition “phony” “crooked” “bad” or “sad”. All of it not necessarily based in fact, but instead a reflection of his personal worldview — one that he wants everyone else to take at face value and accept as fact.

The hazard of ignoring the wanton propagandizing by this administration comes heavily from a logical fallacy called “Appeal to Authority” (a.k.a. “expert fallacy”). Basically, people tend assume that a person given an expert role will have a sounder opinion (or be better educated even in unrelated areas) than a layperson.  (It’s why people assume all doctors can treat any disorder even though medical training is highly specialized. It’s also why people fail to seek a second opinion when they believe something is wrong, but a doctors says they’re fine.) Appeal to Authority is a particularly dangerous fallacy to fall under. It can cause you to trust someone who doesn’t truly warrant that trust. In politics, it’s how a person once elected to office instantly becomes a voice of authority — even when they lack knowledge, experience, or simple common sense. If we want change, we need to start calling out propaganda for what it is, and we need to start demanding facts over politicized opinions.