STAND UP FOR YOUR RIGHTS

The event, streaming live Friday night, will raise funds to “hold off the worst of the Trump administration’s abuses.”

It’s the type of celebrity lineup that typically comes out after a major natural disaster. Tom Hanks. Tina Fey. Alec Baldwin. Usher and The Roots performing together. This time they were doing it in the name of one cause: helping the American Civil Liberties Union stop President Donald Trump.

The benefit show, which streamed live on Facebook starting at 7 p.m. ET on Friday night, March 31, was co-produced by Funny or Die, which promised to release new politically-charged videos throughout the evening online.

“All the proceeds raised will go to what we do best: protecting the civil rights and liberties that truly make America great,” the ACLU wrote in a statement on its website. “Our work in the courts, in Congress and state legislatures, and in the streets is essential right now to hold off the worst of the Trump administration’s abuses.”

In the video that opened the event, Fey and Baldwin were joined by fellow celebrities like Amy Poehler, Mahershala Ali and Lin-Manuel Miranda to help explain just how important the ACLU is. And starting with Trump’s disastrous travel ban, it has become the go-to charitable organization for those who count themselves as part of the resistance. “With your help, we got this,” the actors said in succession.

Tom Hanks, acting as M.C. for the night, followed that up with a bit in which he confused the ACLU with UCLA before a stagehand corrected him. “We are here tonight to do kooky bits on the internet,” he said, in addition to raising money to protect Americans’ basic civil rights. “Why is this not on television? No one wanted us on television?” Hanks asked, jokingly.

Just like at a traditional telethon, “this team of celebrity snowflakes” like Tracy Morgan and Zosia Mamet, as Hanks called them, were seated in rows, in front of laptops instead of telephones to chat with donors. “George Bush doesn’t care about black people,” Morgan said in a throwback to Kanye West’s famous Hurricane Katrina telethon comments. “Why won’t he paint me?”

Later, in a conversation with a pair of ACLU representatives, Hanks asked, “Is it wrong to say that some of the nicest people I’ve met are Muslims?” He didn’t receive an answer on that one way or the other. But moments later, he did say, "Please welcome Stephen Baldwin's brother, Alec Baldwin!"



“I’m not Donald Trump, but I did impersonate him once to get a fast pass at the Six Flags at the Kremlin,” Baldwin joked. “He has a great ride there: Pirates of the Constitution.” 



After that, Seth Meyers took a very special “closer look” at the work that the ACLU is doing on voting rights. “Not only do they protect our voting rights, the ACLU now has to protect us from cameras Obama put in our microwaves,” he joked.

“Voting lines should not be as long as lines for the port-a-potties at Coachella,” the Late Night host added, before calling out President Trump for continuing to “lie” about the supposed 3-5 million “illegal” votes cast in the 2016 election.



“I’m more than just a working mom & stay at home actress. I’m also a card-carrying member of the ACLU,” Tina Fey said when she finally took the stage, speaking to women’s rights. “Lucky for us, Mike Pence can’t go and shut down a Planned Parenthood unless his wife goes along with him.”