President Trump just scored a big win. On Thursday the House passed the Senate budget proposal by 216 to 212. The budget was crucial to pass in order to enable various things in the future, including Trump’s big tax reform bill to stimulate our economy. The fact that it only passed by four votes is troubling and it happened because a number of Republicans broke with POTUS and voted against his budget, as Conservative Tribune reports.

All Democrats voted against the budget, as would be expected. But the fact that 20 Republicans joined them is quite a surprise, and not a very pleasant surprise, either. Many of the Republicans who voted against it are from the Northeast and likely trying to cuck to Blue Dog Democrats, but others are from districts that are deep red conservative, so it is quite unfortunate they saw fit to slap our president in the face with their purist obsession over a balanced budget.

Those Republicans who voted against included Congressmen Justin Amash of Michigan, Ken Buck of Colorado, Dan Donovan of New York, John Duncan of Tennessee, John Faso of New York and Brian Fitzpatrick of Pennsylvania, Matt Gaetz of Florida, Lynn Jenkins of Kansas, Walter B. Jones of North Carolina, John Katko of New York, Pete King of New York, Leonard Lance of New Jersey, Frank Lobiondo of New Jersey, Tom MacArthur of New Jersey, Thomas Massie of Kentucky, Mark Sanford of South Carolina, Chris Smith of New Jersey, Elise Stefanik of New York, Claudia Tenney of New York, and Lee Zeldin of New York.

That’s a long list of losers. The budget is crucial to pass because it can allow tax reform to take place which will jumpstart the economy and allow it to continue to skyrocket under Trump. Included in this budget was provisions to let the Senate debate budget reconciliation which will allow through potential tax reform. The Senate rules of budget reconciliation require 51 votes to pass (simple majority) and the Republicans have a 52-seat majority. The problem is if any Republicans join these loser Congressmen in opposing the bill it could be sunk.

It’s time for real action in Washington. We’ve already seen what Trump can accomplish with pure strength of will but now he needs our politicians to get their act together and support the America First agenda. The 20 Republicans who voted no on this budget did so for many reasons. Some don’t want to pass an unbalanced budget and are financial hawks and libertarians like Amash. Others are from liberal states and don’t want to see their state lose hefty tax deductions that the budget scraps for the good of the American people.

Well the truth is it’s time for the gravy train to come to a screeching halt. Hardworking Americans have too much at stake for these bozo Republicans to play politics. If the Republican Senate can get itself together and pass tax reform we are in for a much better future. If the GOP keeps being sabotaged from inside with infighting and bickering then the Democrats might as well be in charge. President Trump is a strong leader but he can’t do it all alone!

What do you think of this story? Do you support these Republicans who voted against the budget or do you think they’re getting in the way of economic progress?