The NFL is in major crisis after players have started protesting by kneeling during the national anthem. It all started with Colin Kaepernick, but it’s become more and more common, especially after President Trump recently called out kneelers for their disloyalty. The latest team to have some players kneel is the New England Patriots.

According to Wildcard, a number of Patriots players kneeled during the anthem before a home game against the visiting Houston Texans. Keep in mind that the New England Patriots are a very legendary team who have won five Super Bowls in the past two decades. They also have the best quarterback ever, Trump supporter Tom Brady and an incredible coach, Bill Belichick. The point is that hometown fans love the Patriots because the Patriots are winners.

But even diehard fans couldn’t stomach it when some Patriot players decided to kneel during the national anthem today. Brady and many players linked arm in arm standing patriotically, and no Texan knelt. However, some Patriots players knelt down disrespectfully and got the last reaction they expected from the hometown crowd: loud boos.

Now and then hometown fans will boo their team for a really bad play or embarrassing mistake, but to do so before a game is a pretty dramatic slap to the face. CBS even cut away quickly to commercial to not give airtime to fans who were yelling loud boos. Gillette Stadium where the Pats play is a massive place. If only a few fans booed you wouldn’t have heard it.

Just like many Americans, Patriot fans are not happy about the disrespect to the American anthem that NFL players are displaying. Recently Patriot owner Robert Kraft said he stands behind his players’ “right to peacefully affect social change.”

Kraft is a Trump supporter and friend as are Brady and Belichick. Trump likes winners, after all, at the Patriots are definitely winners. Nonetheless, some feel Kraft isn’t taking a strong enough stand against his players acting out. Thankfully fans are there to embarrass immature players who try to kneel with boos. I wonder if they’ll try again.

What do you think about how the Patriots are handling this situation? Do you agree with fans booing their own hometown players who knelt during the anthem?