Ever since President Trump won the election, there has been a mass of Republicans who haven’t been working with him. They’ve been working against him. It’s all an effort to bring him down and reestablish the establishment that enriches them.

We have known for a while that Paul Ryan doesn’t serve the GOP or the American people. A few days ago, WikiLeaks released information on the Republicans who are working against the American people. Ryan was one of the six who is a traitor.

If you’re not familiar with Paul Ryan’s antics over the past several months, here’s a quick recap. Several days ago, Wikileaks discovered a series of emails on Huma Abedin’s computer, only identified document 1078645. It the emails, it was revealed how 6 Republican traitors have been actively working with Hillary to get Trump removed from office, as she’s been buying them off with funds straight from her Clinton Foundation. In addition to Paul Ryan being one of the traitors named, Hillary has also been padding the pockets of John McCain, Lindsey Graham, Jeb Bush, Carly Fiorina, and John Kasich, buying their alliance against Trump.

One of the emails said that Kasich was on board. The emails was sent to Paul Ryan just days before Ryan went back on his promise to aide President Trump at a speaking event in Wisconsin.“

Along with Paul Ryan’s outrageous slandering of our president where he publicly lambasted Trump while siding with Antifa terrorists following the Charlottesville incident, we’re now finding out that Ryan is actually working with the liberals and doing all he can to stop the American people’s agenda. He doesn’t want Trump in DC and he doesn’t want him to win in 2020. The wall is happening regardless of Paul Ryan.

As Ryan goes back on the promise he made in December of last year to “support the president’s agenda,” now a White House insider is reveals that Ryan is working with D.C. Democrats to get the government shut down over the building of Trump’s border wall, knowing a government shutdown will cast Trump in horrible light.

What do you think about this?