Don't look now, but the civil war among the Dems is only heating up despite that unity tour.

“Yeah, he was,” Ellison said when asked whether Obama was responsible for some of the electoral failures of 2016.  “And look-- I’m a great fan of of President Obama. I totally voted for many of the things he supported — Dodd Frank, Affordable Care Act, Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act — I could keep going - wonderful achievements - but Barack Obama could have been a better party leader, and I think that the fact that he wasn’t, has put his legacy in jeopardy. “Your legacy’s not a building that he’s gonna construct in Chicago housing his presidential papers. His legacy is the work that he has done, which I believe is tremendous, but given that we did not-- we lost a lot of state House seats, governorships, secretaries of states, his true legacy’s in danger, and I think that he can’t say that he wasn’t part of those losses. I mean, who else?” Ellison said.

But Obama did shut Keith X out of the DNC chairmanship. The Sanders wing of the Dems (even though Sanders insists he's not a Dem) is still at war with the DNC. And since Obama now owns the DNC, the way that Hillary used to. Sanders and Ellison are going after Obama.

Obama is the new Hillary.

On Friday, the runner-up for the 2016 Democratic presidential nomination called it “distasteful,” echoing similar concerns voiced the day before by Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Massachusetts,  “I think at a time when we have so much income and wealth inequality … I think it just does not look good. It’s not a good idea,” Sen. Sanders told CNN. “And I’m sorry President Obama made that choice. I just think it is distasteful. It is not a great idea that he did that.”

Now that Obama owns the DNC, he's the windmill to tilt at. And even more, the left gets its juice from attacking the Dems for being too moderate and insisting on radical change. That means hitting Obama.

It's a risky strategy. But that's why Ellison takes the lead. And the racial heat.

Bernie Sanders is already as popular with black people as the KKK. So that wouldn't work too well. Ellison makes a good bully boy because he's a twofer, black and Muslim. But these are the opening shots in a civil war that will only grow uglier.