Usually one has to read hundreds of books to fathom how the puppet masters of the world work, but once in a while, there is a single event that explains it all. The war in Syria is one of those. Understand the Syrian war, you’ll realize how pervasive propaganda is, how easy it is to manipulate people, how powerful the globalists are, how and why wars are manufactured, and how cynical and ruthless nations are. Let’s take a look at some of the revelations from the Syrian war.

In the U.S., six corporations control 85% of the media. However, in fact, they are all just one group of elites. Globally, pretty much all the corporate media now are controlled by the same interests. This is really hard for most people to digest. The war in Syria, however, made this very clear. With the exception of Russia’s RT, every influential newspaper and TV channel in the world has repeated the same propaganda, talking points, and the narratives with impeccable coordination. As an example, the fake story of the Aleppo boy was not only repeated all over the world, but was on the front page, on the same day, all over the world!

Psychologically, it’s difficult for people to believe that every media outlet would lie. Don’t we live in a country with free media and amazing journalists and pundits? Well, it’s called the Overton Window – a narrow, strict boundary within which journalists can bravely discuss anything they want. Every MSM in the world lied – and still does – about Syria.

To start with, the media wouldn’t even think about revealing the geopolitical and financial reasons behind the Syrian war – Qatar oil/gas pipeline through Syria to Europe, Israel’s land and oil grab in Golan Heights, Saudi Arabia’s obsession with preventing a Shiite Crescent (Iran-Iraq-Syria-Lebanon) etc.

The media’s job is to sell the war. To that end, they uniformly lied about Assad being unpopular, when separate polls by CNN and Zogby showed him as the most popular leader in the Arab world in 2009. They lied about how the protests started (it was engineered by CIA & Muslim Brotherhood) and who was fighting Assad (fact: there are no “moderate Syrian rebels” – the opponents are undemocratic Islamists, psychotic foreign terrorists, Al Qaeda and ISIS).

The difference between Assad and the rebels can be summed up in this one picture that shows schools in areas controlled by Assad versus the “moderate rebels”:

A romanticized and fictitious story of peaceful people fighting Assad was peddled for six years (fact: the fighters had billions of dollars worth of sophisticated, lethal weapons). Once in a while, the New York Times or The Guardian would slip in the truth, but the lies always overwhelmed and drowned the truth.

Other arms of the globalists – Twitter, Netflix, HBO etc. – also made their own contributions to the insane propaganda and lies. US/UK governments gave $100 million to Al Qaeda and created a slick hoax called the White Helmets that even won an Oscar. Then there was Bana Alabed, the 7-year-old Syrian girl from Aleppo who could barely speak/understand English, but tweeted Neocon talking points with the perfect English of a NY Times reporter. She has a verified Twitter account that is followed by celebrities and world leaders, has been interviewed by every MSM, and now has a book deal. If you tell a big enough lie and keep repeating it, people will believe it.

There are so many liberals who can’t even imagine for a moment that Obama and Hillary would have attacked Libya and Syria for anything other than humanitarian and noble reasons. Even Bernie Sanders supported both those wars. All these just show how strong the military-industrial complex and the globalists are. The only politician to speak the truth about US arming terrorists is Tulsi Gabbard, who introduced a bill that merely said that the U.S. should not support terrorists. Guess how many Congressmen support her? 13 out of 538. Rand Paul introduced the same bill in the Senate and hasn’t gotten a single co-sponsor so far.

If the media and the politicians are corrupt, the American people are naïve. They believe the myth of humanitarian wars and have no knowledge of history or geopolitics. How many Americans are aware of all the attempts by the U.S. Deep State since the 1950s to topple the government in Syria? They also don’t like to think critically. They see some pictures of dead children on TV, and they approve Trump bombing Syria. They don’t ask basic questions that would be required in a crime scene regarding evidence, expert analysis, motives, means and opportunity. (Here’s my article on why the alleged chemical attack is fake or false flag). It’s no wonder that America is in a perpetual state of war.

The news and narratives we hear are entirely from the point of view of the US/Western establishment. That Assad might be a nice guy or is well-liked by his own people is just too shocking. It doesn’t even cross people’s minds that they should learn about or listen to a foreign leader. We just believe one-dimensional caricatures for foreign leaders, so the verdict against a foreign leader/country will always be guilty.

Syria is probably the first war in modern history when globalists used a joint project of multiple nations to wage a war. In this evil project of destruction:

The extensive use of Islamic terrorists over the past six years to bring about regime change in Syria should shock the conscience of any American. The Mujahideen project never went away, and the Syrian war only proves that Islamic terrorists will continue to act as proxy warriors on behalf of the globalists. (You can read my article: “US and Allies Created, Funded, Armed ISIS”).

We have a ruthless, sophisticated and cunning system that thrives on conflicts and wars which, in turn, depend on a gullible population that simply consumes news and opinions fed by mass media and the politicians. If people truly understand the war on Syria, they’ll see the scam that’s being perpetrated. For further reference and reading materials on the Syrian war, here are some of my articles:

You can read more from Chris Kanthan at his site World Affairs. Although a computer geek by profession, he is a writer and an author from San Francisco, trying to raise awareness about politics, world affairs, food and health through non-partisan blog posts, often with a twist of satire. He loves traveling and has been to 35 countries around the world.

He is also the author of Deconstructing Monsanto.

He is currently working on another book, detailing the enormous challenges and imminent dangers facing America and how to address them.