As VT is hunkering down for a new cyber attack from Trump, we will mirror key articles at www.ntelvets.com

[Editor’s note: Make no mistake, the reason Trump has ordered the White House visitors logs to be kept secret is simply that the number of scurrilous characters coming and going would make it plain for all to see that rather than ‘draining the swamp’ he has turned the White House into a HQ for the Mafia that put him in office.

Not only does his ‘daughter’ Ivanka have an office there, so does Felix Sater, Trump’s Russian Mafia handler, just one of many organised crime figures to now be found stalking the White House corridors of power. Trump has classified “top secret” for “national security” who comes and goes at the White House which includes not only visitors but the staff as well in this way he aims to keep secret the fact that the place is now run by the Russian Mafia.

Mingling with these crime lords are all manner of shady types, the full gamut of undesirables from hookers and rent boys to drug pushers and child sex traffickers; the ‘full service’ hospitality the Mob types demand.  This is the reality of the executive branch of government in the US today, not only has the White House become a literal whore house, the mobsters are running rackets out of there and all protected and secured by the Secret Service.

Of course, there have been some seedy goings-on at the White House before, such as the male hookers who were smuggled in by Bush, for his own personal enjoyment, a sordid affair hidden behind a cover story provided by the fake girlfriend, Jennifer Fitzgerald. However, that was nothing compared to what Trump has allowed to happen….

This is nothing new in the world of Trump, his Trump Tower in Manhattan has long been a haven for the self same Mafia criminals, protected from surveillance by corruption in the FBI and since Trump’s ‘election’ guarded by the Secret Service, another hopelessly corrupt institution.

The same is going on down in Florida at Trump’s Mar-a-Lago resort, where the mobsters come and go like kings and don’t appear to mind that the place is overrun with vermin and has rotten food, attested by the many failed inspections, but thanks to bribery and corruption, has remained open.

Trump spends his time playing golf while the real business of government is now in the hands of his masters the Kosher Nostra, the Russo-Jewish Mafia, the people who got Trump ‘elected’, a fact conveniently hidden behind the interminable ‘Russian hacking’ stories the MSM has made so much play out of. Trump is simply wheeled out whenever they require the bloviating orange fleshbag to emit yet another of his ludicrous streams of effluvia, he is nothing more than a puppet figurehead, a salesman in a fancy suit fronting for the worst criminals on the planet.

We must include RT as part of the MSM who are deeply complicit in the scam that placed Trump in power; they continue to give him a very easy ride – note how they fail to provide any deeper information on this story other than a vague insinuation that Trump has something to hide. If RT was truly serving the interests of Russia, it would castigate Trump whenever possible; instead they have been deeply infiltrated and co-opted by the same Kosher Nostra and Israeli forces that control Trump. Ian]

_________

 Russia Today

 ‘Opposite of draining the swamp’: Watchdogs hit Trump for secret White House visitor log

President Donald Trump’s administration announced they will no longer disclose records pertaining to who visits the White House, a decision that watchdog groups say will only serve to erode trust in the institution.

The White House announced Friday they will keep their visitor logs private, citing “grave national security risks and privacy concerns of the hundreds of thousands of visitors annually,” according to a statement released by communications director Michael Dubke.

Dubke added that the logs would be disclosed “as outlined under the Freedom of Information Act.” However, a 2013 court ruling determined the president is not legally obligated to disclose White House visitor records under the Freedom of Information Act.

Watchdog groups criticized the latest decision from the Trump administration, saying that visitor logs help the American people know who is influencing the president.

“The only excuse for this policy is that the Trump administration has something to hide,” David Donnelly, president and CEO of Every Voice, a nonprofit political advocacy group, said in a Friday press release. “This kind of secrecy will allow big donors, lobbyists and special interests to have unknown levels of influence in the White House.”

“It’s the exact opposite of ‘draining the swamp,” Donnelly added.

Tom Fitton, president of the conservative Judicial Watch, said he was “disappointed” in the Trump administration’s decision. He added that the policy “undermines the rule of law and suggests this White House doesn’t want to be accountable to the American people,” according to a statement released Friday.

“It’s disappointing that the man who promised to ‘drain the swamp’ just took a massive step away from transparency,” Noah Bookbinder, Executive Director of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington (CREW), a legal watchdog group, said in a statement.

This past Monday, CREW filed a lawsuit against the Trump administration for failing to respond to a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request to disclose records from the White House and Trump’s residences in Florida and New York.

Democrats in Congress have also introduced legislation that would require the Trump administration to disclose their visitor logs from the White House, Trump Tower, the Trump National Golf Club in New Jersey and the Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida, which Trump has dubbed the “southern White House.”

The Obama administration claimed the policy was created to ensure Americans could “know whose voices are being heard in the policymaking process.”

Under Obama, visitor logs were released every 90-120 days. By the end of his presidency, Obama had released the names of nearly 6 million visitors, according to White House records.

The White House did not include personal guests who did not have any official political business, such as family and friends, or guests who had particularly sensitive meetings with the president, such as potential Supreme Court nominees.

However, the Obama administration did include records on how many names were withheld, and later released their names once the information was no longer considered sensitive.

The Obama-era visitor logs did not contain personal information that could threaten the visitor’s safety or national security, such as, dates of birth, social security numbers, and contact phone numbers, etc.

While Obama was in office, Trump repeatedly criticized him on Twitter for not releasing various personal records like his birth certificate. Trump accused Obama of “spending millions to try and hide his records” and questioned if he was “Hiding something?”