In the latest edition of the “News in Cartoons” Humor Times app, called Dead on Arrival, the world’s greatest editorial cartoonists (who populate our popular Humor Times magazine with great material every single month) review the latest news in the way only political cartoonists can.

Republicans just won’t give up on their pet project, destroying Obamacare, even though their plan is extremely unpopular with a huge majority. It threatens to put health care out of reach for as many as 30 million people or more, and raise rates for everyone.

Although it’s been seven years since the GOP pledged to “repeal and replace” Obama’s signature achievement, it seems they couldn’t be bothered to actually come up with a workable plan. Now they’re talking about just repealing, and “coming up with something” later. Yeah, don’t hold your breath. Or you may turn blue and have no access to health care to revive you.

The app also features a “bonus cartoon” each issue, as well as a funny video of the week.

The Humor Times “News in Cartoons” app is available only for Android phones or tablets at this time, but we hope to be rolling out an iOS versions and others soon.

It’s the FUN way to get your news!

“Great for political humor enthusiasts. Funnest AND funniest way to get your news!”

 — J LeDoux

Each edition is basically an excerpt from the Humor Times monthly magazine (available in print or digital format all over the world), a publication that reviews recent news stories in hilarious fashion with editorial cartoons by the finest in the business, arranged with a running narrative above each cartoon, stringing them together to tell a recent news story.

Please share this page or the app itself widely on Facebook, Twitter, by email, etc! Help us make it go viral! (You can share right from the app, or from the Google Play store while you’re there, or just share this post, and/or copy the link below.)

Thank you, and enjoy!

‘Dead on Arrival’: Latest Edition of HT’s FREE ‘News in Cartoons’ App! was last modified: by

Like the above content? Leave a comment below! Get notified of new content on HumorTimes.com: Subscribe via email!