Last week, the internet exploded when the White House announced that Ivanka Trump would be traveling to Germany to participate in a panel at the W20 Summit. Many Twitter users were particularly put off by the fact that she, the daughter of a billionaire, would be speaking at an event that “promotes women’s economic empowerment.”

Despite the many negative reactions the announcement received, Trump still showed up to the event. During the panel, she even tried to make a case for her father, saying that he has supported the “thousands” women who have worked for him.

Trump first drew boos from the crowd when she described her father as a “tremendous champion of supporting families.”

When asked whether or not her father’s publicly displayed attitudes towards women in the past are indicative of his support for women, she replied:

‘I’ve certainly heard the criticism from the media, but I know from personal experience, and I think the thousands of women who have worked with and for my father for decades when he was in the private sector are a testament to his belief and solid conviction in the potential of women and their ability to do the job as well as any man.’ ‘I think in my personal experience, as a daughter, I can speak on a very personal level knowing that he encouraged and enabled me to thrive. I grew up in a house where there was no barriers to what I could accomplish beyond my own perseverance and tenacity, and I don’t take that lightly as a parent now myself…And there was no difference for me and my brothers.’

Trump went on to say that she believes people will “absolutely see” that same attitude from her father now that he is president.

Naturally, Trump’s comments — as well as her overall presence at the event — were not well-received by much of the audience.

‘I think it’s outrageous. Why does she have the power and the position to meet Angela Merkel?’ ‘It’s not clear exactly what her position is. She obviously has more power than what her official role suggests.’

Another attendee, 35-year-old Sandra Toepke, said that, while Trump technically was qualified to speak at the event because of her business experience, she doesn’t really fit the bill “on a political level.”

Ivanka’s father may have been proud of her participation in the event, but the audience clearly had different ideas.

Hear the crowd’s reaction Ivanka Trump’s remarks in the video below, courtesy of NBC.