As Republicans continue pushing forward with their so-called health care bill, many people’s anxiety around what it will mean to be under/uninsured also increases. Report after report confirms that the GOP’s legislation will be nothing short of disastrous for millions of Americans.

For people like Donald Trump, Paul Ryan, Mitch McConnell, and others, the reality of what their bill means simply doesn’t matter. They’re wealthy, so they don’t seem to care about the people they’ve been elected to represent. However, not every GOP lawmaker was born with a silver spoon in his/her mouth.

One in particular is said to have benefited from government medical care, and therefore should be more empathetic to the plight of those struggling to make ends meet. That person is Mitch McConnell; in the 1940s he was diagnosed with polio. During that time it wasn’t abnormal for the disease to have life ending and/or life altering effects. And while he now takes pride in presenting himself as a haughty elitist, there was a time when his life literally depended on the federal funding received by the medical center at which he received care.

Proving that he has truly forgotten where he comes from, Mitch McConnell has taken his blatant and overt disregard for humanity to another level. When asked to meet with various patient advocacy groups, including the one that was integral in his care during his battle with polio, McConnell refused:

Quite naturally, because of the manner in which McConnell carries himself, people weren’t surprised to learn that he isn’t willing to make time for groups that will be adversely impacted by the bill that he supports. However, not being surprised didn’t keep people from sounding off.

Many were taken aback by the fact that a public servant would turn down the chance to meet with the public:



 Others simply vented their frustrations with McConnell and other Republican lawmakers:



 Quite frankly, if McConnell is going to continue putting his personal and party’s interests over those of the people he is supposed to represent, then yes, he should resign.