Athens. Viewing  from the birthplace of democracy the latest and most disturbing  developments in the startlingly rapid decline of the American Republic  in the seven months since Donald J. Trump assumed office provides one  with a useful perspective.

No  reasonable person can any longer deny that our Constitutional Republic  is in grave danger. Trump regularly assails the courts, seems blissfully  ignorant of the roles of Congress, a free press, and checks and  balances, and knows virtually nothing about the history of the people he  wants to rule as the sort of authoritarian he so admires in other  countries. A recent poll found  that half of Republicans would be willing to suspend the 2020 Election  and allow Trump to remain in power unconstitutionally. And now we have  seen a gang of racist Neo-Nazi terrorists pledging their allegiance to  Trump attack an American town — the home of Thomas Jefferson, no  less — and the president failing forcefully to denounce them, then being  persuaded to read a statement on Monday condemning neo-Nazis, but left  to speak his mind on Tuesday,  swinging back to refusing to condemn the neo-Nazis and arguing moral  equivalence of the white supremacist attackers and what he labeled the  “alt-left” (whatever that is). Millions of other Americans also sided  with the terrorists. Plainly, the current situation corresponds with the  “fire-bell in the night” that in 1820 filled Jefferson with terror  about the nation’s future.

The  first important point to be realized in viewing the present American  crisis from Athens is that Athenian democracy excluded categories of  people similar to those today’s Trumpists seek to subordinate: women,  the foreign born, and slaves. In ancient Athens, the last of those  groups consisted largely of people who had fallen into debt that they  could not repay, which is to say the poor — the sort of people who  (along with women, immigrants, and racial or ethnic minorities) Trump  demeans, even while hoodwinking them into thinking he is their champion.

Misogyny  ran through the fabric of ancient Athens, as it does through the veins  of Donald Trump and the white male supremacists who comprise the shock  troops of his anti-American movement. In both times and places, the  status of women was a major matter of contention. Women had previously  (in the case of classical Greece considerably longer ago than in  contemporary America) enjoyed a degree of equality that men sought to  take away. Aristotle classified a female as a “deformed male.” In Athens  during its golden age, women were totally excluded from public life.  Inasmuch as public life was considered the be-all and end-all of  meaningful human experience, a man who was uninterested in the affairs  of the polis — politics — was classified as an idiot, which meant that he was like a woman.

The effort to put women “in their place” was evident such ancient Greek plays as Aeschylus’ The Eumenides  (458 BCE), which contends that it was an honor for women to give up  their former power and go underground to serve the men by providing  fruitful soil and has Athena proclaim: “I am always for the male.”  Euripides’ The Bacchae (405 BCE) warned Greek men of the catastrophic consequences that could flow from giving women any power whatsoever.

One  thinks also of the parallel between the demagogues who turned poorly  educated and easily swayed Athenians against the intellectuals,  particularly at the end of the Peloponnesian resulting in the  imprisonment and death of Socrates and in Plato’s disillusionment with  democracy and the anti-science, anti-fact preachments of the Trumpists. We  must recognize that we are in the greatest crisis our nation has faced  since the Civil War. Anyone who fails to stand, with no hint of  equivocation, against the assault on our Constitutional system, American  values, and common decency being carried out by Trump and the  authoritarian elements inside (e.g., the just-departed Stephen K.  Bannon, Stephen Miller and Sebastian L. v. Gorka [the L. v. indicates  his allegiance to a Hungarian Nazi group]) and outside (Richard Spencer,  David Duke, and assorted neo-Nazis, racists, thugs and terrorists, such  as those who descended on Charlottesville last weekend) his  administration, shows him- or herself to be against America. Trump  longs to be the sort of commanding military leader that Pericles was,  what would in later times be called a “Man on Horseback,” to whom  frustrated people are willing to submit in hopes of improving their  situations. In fact, of course, he is nothing of the sort; he is a  pathetic “man on a golf cart” who avoided military service by claiming  to have bone spurs in his right foot . . . or maybe his left foot. He  is, though, quite willing to saber rattle against North Korea,  Venezuela, or anyone else, apart from Russia, in order to divert public  attention from his own failures and misdeeds. Perhaps  the ancient Athenian of whom Donald Trump is most reminiscent is a  nephew of Pericles, Alcibiades. He was a rich, privileged man known for  his profligate lifestyle, immorality, treachery and working with Athens’  enemies. He riled up the Athenian citizens to launch an all-advised  attack on Sicily in 415 BCE, then switched sides to join with Sparta and  later with Persia, though he eventually came back to Athens and  regained popularity and power. Some parallels with the current American  president are clear, though Alcibiades, unlike Trump, actually was a  military leader. On a  visit to Delphi a few days ago, at the Temple of Apollo, I asked the  Pythia what the future of the American Republic will be. The Oracle was  silent, which I took to be eloquent. I interpreted to mean: “It is up to  the American people to determine what their future will be.” {Millsaps  College historian Robert S. McElvaine, the author of ten books, has  just completed a book manuscript, “‘Fuck You!’ — A Brief History  Misogyny, from ‘Prehistory’ to Trump.”}