Here’s a little twittie, about Flakey and Dean

Two GOP pols hangin’  out, in the Trump scene

Flakey wants to fight the head doorknob

Dean wants to lay low, just hang on to his job

Oh yeah, the game goes on

Long after the thrill of running is gone

Oh yeah! I I said the game goes on

Long after the thrill, of running is gone

The ongoing fallout of the Trump klutztocracy is about to play out in all of its gory glory. And it is going to be an interesting battle, simply because of the separate dynamics that may play out from state to state. We are already seeing a glimpse of what wold seem likely to be the two most common strategies by the two Senators up for reelection in 2018 on the GOP side that are considered to be the weakest links in the Senate chain. And their differing approaches may well be a glimmer of the outlines of 2020.

Due to the vagaries of the calendar, the Republicans only have to defend 8 seats in the 2018 cycle, and Jeff Flake of Arizona, and Dean Heller of Nevada are widely considered to be the two weakest candidates running, although for different reasons. And thereby lies the rub, and the apparent variance in the strategy both are tipping towards running their upcoming campaigns.

Jeff Flake is a more traditional GOP Senator, in a red state, he really shouldn’t be in much trouble. He was in the House from 2001-2013, and is an incumbent Senator running for reelection in the Senate for the first time. As near as I can tell, the two biggest reasons for his weakness in 2018 are not of his own making. One is the changing ethnic demographics in Arizona, and the other, more troubling sign is the weakness of Trump himself in Arizona. Trump only won Arizona by 3.5 points in 2016, and didn’t even clear 50%, only capturing 48.1% of the popular vote in the state.

Dean Heller’s problems are many. Fro starters, Heller began his Senate career under a cloud. He was not originally elected to the US Senate from Nevada. He was in the House, and was elevated to the Senate in 2011, when sitting Senator John (Itchy Pants) Ensign was forced to resign in a scandal involving hanky-panky with a staffer, and then having his parents buy off the staffer and her husband. Heller ran for reelection in 2012, and was opposed by Democrat Shelley Berkley, who ran one of the drabbest room temperature campaigns of all time, and yet Heller only won by 1 point. And oh yeah, Clinton beat Trump by 2 points in 2016.

From where I’m sitting, out here in Vegas, if the Democrat’s can run somebody who didn’t donate to Idi Amin’s campaign, Heller should be toast. Simply because Heller has proven himself to be a totally craven, opportunistic, flip flopping chickenshit. At the start, like most others, he meekly tolerated Trump’s nonsense, until the healthcare issue hit the fan. Heller was hammered in the media, in its first iteration. Heller was slammed almost hourly on both MSNBC and CNN with attack ads. He even had to take the drastic step of publicly stating support for funding Planned Parenthood at a town hall in Reno. Heller could read the tea leaves easily enough to see that the original GOP repeal/replace plan stunk and came out against it early, thankful that there would be no vote. Heller desperately tried to hide in the cellar in the lead up to the “skinny repeal” vote, straddling the fence like a high wire walker.  But when the rubber hit the road, Heller fell into lock step to vote for the “skinny repeal” bill, and will wonders never cease? Almost immediately afterward, a Super PAC controlled by Mitch McConnell announced a 7 digit support pledge for Heller’s reelection effort. All I can say is that it’s a good thing for Heller that prostitution is legal in Nevada, or he’d be out on bail right now.

Either way you cut it, Dean Heller is in deep shit next year. Don’t let anybody tell you that any politician doesn’t have one ear to the scuttlebutt ground, and the other eye on every poll he can get his hands on. Even without Trump,there is no way that Heller cannot see what a precarious position he’s in. All he has to do is to look at his pathetic winning margin in 2012 against a weak opponent. And it wasn’t just healthcare, for almost every vote that it was even possible for the Senate to have to vote on, Heller was hammered with attack ads to not vote for the plan. Trump lost in Nevada, and in 2016 Democrat Catherine Cortez Masto beat a name recognition GOP House member by 2.5 points. From everything I can see, Heller is once again walking a tightrope, only this time for his job. Chances are that with Trump’s anti Latino stance, and Nevada’s reliance on the Medicaid expansion, his base alone will not be enough to get reelected. He can’t afford to piss off Trump’s base. But at the same time, Trump lost Nevada to Hillary, his base alone won’t do the trick for Heller. So, Heller has to dance between raindrops, like a kid bravely yelling at a bully who’s a block away for his friends, but then obediently hands the bully his lunch money in the schoolyard when he holds his hand out.

Jeff Flake on the other hand seems to be feeling his oats. By both his spoken statements, his recent op-ed piece, and his new book, Flake has decided to take Trump head on. He obviously feels that he is more popular than Trump in Arizona. He apparently feels that whatever achievements he has accomplished in a do nothing Senate, along with his name recognition will not only keep hie pre Trump 2012 base intact, his adversarial stance to Trump will attract enough independent voters to offset his loss of the Trump base, especially if he’s counting on decreased turnout with Trump voters since he’s not on the ballot. There are two problems with this strategy. First, the growing Latino population is unlikely to vote for pretty much anybody with a (R) after their name, regardless of how much they trash Trump. And second, a bunch of word salad verbal diarrhea isn’t going to impress independents struggling to get healthcare when they look at how he voted on the “skinny repeal” bill.

So, which opposite strategy will be successful in 2018? If we play our cards right, neither one of them. Heller is in desperate straits here. A qualified and energetic Democratic candidate should flip this seat. Heller was fine running in his safe district, statewide, he just hasn’t caught on. There just seems to be something about him that people don’t cotton to. Add in a motivated anti Trump Latino community,  and the fact that Trump has already tried to dampen GOP enthusiasm against Heller with a derogatory ad buy in NV during the healthcare debate, and Heller is a man without many friends. Flake feels strong enough to butt heads with the Inglorious Basterd, but Trump has already let slip that he is holding court for GOP primary challengers to Flake in 2018. While Flake may survive the challenge, it will cost him a lot of money and effort, and will give his Democratic opponent plenty of free ammo to fire at him in the general election. Flake is in better shape than Heller, but neither man is in the kind of position they would like to be in.

Most talking heads and political insiders are pointing at these two for being the most watched races in 2018. I think they’re right. God knows GOP leadership and every Senator running in 2020 will be observing these races like Sherlock Holmes at a crime scene. These are the two most direct ways to run, and in 2020 there are 20+ GOP Senators who have to defend their seats. The landscape doesn’t figure to get any brighter or more fertile in the next 3 years. The resistance will continue to strengthen and intensify with every new Trump idiocy, he will continue to bleed “soft” Trump supporters who voted for change and improved lives as Trump flails around, knocking over anything that’s not nailed to the floor. And when 2020 rolls around, you can damn well be guaranteed that you will see endless replays of pretty much the only true words that Trump has uttered since he won. He said them to his crowd in one of his first “Thanks You” rallies. “Hey, I won. I don’t need you people anymore. Maybe in four years, but I don’t need you anymore now”. If Flake and Heller both go down in flames, especially if enough GOP House members go down with them trying the same basic techniques to flip the House, RNC Chair Romney, McConnell and Ryan are going to have a hell of a time trying to cobble something together in about 15 months. But I’m sure they’re up to the task, just look how wisely they spent the last 7 years perfecting their healthcare repeal and replace. They’ve got this one nailed.