The physics of flow and synchronicity, to the extent that , indicates that when each of us takes directed action in our lives, circumstances spontaneously rise which assist in moving our intended cause forward. Put another way, the cosmos we live in is responsive to our actions.

How can we make use of this process to make a difference in regional or even worldwide issues that are important to us? With the idea that the cosmos is responsive to us, I have developed a sense for how to use my efforts effectively in order to “make a difference” and feel good about the time spent. Since the universe responds to us, I believe we should take that responsibility seriously and do something with it.

This article assumes that you are a busy person, engaged with many important things in your life, yet you are passionate about the community and world in which you live, and you often think about wanting to make a wider difference than you already do. For my part, I have been quietly involved in multiple presidential campaigns and statewide initiatives on issues ranging from social justice to environmental justice, and from local to nationwide in scope. I have done this, like many of you, while being employed and raising a family. Below are 4 tips that I have found useful in guiding my efforts.

Singular points are those moments when a small shift in circumstances can make a large difference on the future course of events. For instance, if an issue is going to be voted on this week and the projected spread is very close, this is a singular point. Your involvement may only make a small shift in the coincidental circumstances that arise, yet it can have a profound effect because of the singular nature of the moment.

Think about running for the closing doors of a subway: if you make that train, your life may unfold with a dramatically different story than if you don’t make that train.

Singular moments are important because that’s where you can have the most impact with your precious time. You can catch singular moments by noticing random comments or events that catch your attention. Treat no piece of information as accidental, for it is an oft-reported experience that we are given the information we need when we need it. The good news is that you don’t need to plan out your political involvement and make it yet another thing in your life to manage. Instead, be sensitive to the signs of redirection from people and events in your life, and be willing to step up and adjust your plans a little when you catch wind of a singular moment that you care about.

We get into the flow and bring about meaningful coincidences by building momentum in the world of “meaning,” doing things that have a purpose. Building momentum is like pedaling a bicycle, and the amount of effort it takes can be substantial. Every minute of our day up is for grabs to make consistent progress on building meaningful lives.

When we stop pedaling the bike, momentum gradually starts to fade. But we should be compassionate with ourselves: we have many priorities, so we have to regularly stop pedaling the bike of, say, political work, in order to ride the bike of housework or employment. That is natural and good, for these are areas of our lives where we are also building momentum, and they need our attention. Political change would be easier if we were each one-trick ponies.

Here’s where you can save time: stop checking for results. The only wasted time is when I stop pedaling the bicycle in order to look behind me and see if it’s working. When I do this, my momentum starts to wane, all just to assuage my fear that I am not making a difference. Plus, if I am discouraged by what I see when I look back, I may never start pedaling again.

So the practice for me is to let go of attachment to the outcome. When we stop to question whether we are really powerful and effective agents of change, we stop pedaling the bike and undermine our very ability to make change.

Nobody wants to waste their time. Yet the nature of the responsive cosmos is that the response from nature may not happen quickly. Building momentum towards a certain outcome requires investing time and energy without having the immediate feedback we might prefer.

Anything we do builds momentum, so the only thing that can get in our way is if we build a little momentum in one direction and then lose faith or get distracted into another direction. Each day that we do not persistently build momentum toward an outcome, some momentum is lost. This means committing to a project through the next singular moment, when your effort pays off.

Once you push a rock up the hill and over the crest, it rolls effortlessly down the other side. You may not choose to keep pushing up the next hill, and that’s fine. But if you stop pushing before the top of this hill, the rock will roll back down to where you started. For example, continue making phone calls related to an issue up to and after an important vote. Instead of going online to check the results (“looking behind you”), continue making calls after the vote. Stay focused on doing the work in front of you (“riding the bike”) instead of determining whether you were successful. Then there will be a point at which you naturally find out about the results of the election without seeking it; that’s when your work is done.

Trust that your effort matters. Your job is to have a purpose and build momentum, not to achieve results.

The final step I will mention may be the most practical question looming for many of us: what should I actually work on? If I care about an issue, and there are two different organizations working towards that goal, which one should I support? This may feel like just another task that requires research and investment of time before even getting started, and serves as a barrier to entry.

The beauty of the process of flow is that this decision doesn’t seem to matter. No matter which direction you choose, circumstances can arise which support your success. I have found that it is important to pick an action that puts physical energy into the world (especially my voice), and one that is roughly on target with my goals. Thinking or writing about an issue is a little effective. Talking with friends about it is more effective. But when you connect with strangers or break the ice on a topic with colleagues at work, you invest a large amount of your personal energy. This is very effective at building momentum and can lead to more real change than many hours of, say, posting on facebook.

If I care about poverty, I can seek a local community organization that has ways for me to help that I find easy. If your passion is healthcare, find any organization doing related work that allows you to phonebank remotely. Doing so will build momentum for the issue overall, and I suspect bring about meaningful coincidence at all scales.

In flow, I have found that it’s the underlying symbolic purpose that matters.

In every moment our actions are building momentum in some direction. If we don’t recognize this, we may feel distraught about what we can do to “make a difference.” Here’s the thing: we are always making a difference. But, as any business owner knows, making a visible difference can take far more energy than we think. There is not a moment to lose: we always have enough time, but we always have just enough time.

Everything you do—whether driving kids to school, making dinner, working late, doing art, playing music, watching a football game, or working on a political cause—is building momentum. None of these are good or bad, right or wrong. The important thing is taking responsibility for where we want to build momentum in our lives.

Making a visible difference may take more time and energy than we expect. However, this is something we experience in other areas of our lives, from our jobs to parenting, so it is something we can learn to feel comfortable with. To feel most successful, we can recognize the singular points, and stay engaged until the next milestone is reached.

There is a payoff: as you go, lookout for the events happening in the world surrounding your topic of passion which bring you relief and make you feel that progress is being made. If you have been engaged in the struggle, then those victories are yours. Allow synchronistic events like this to bolster your spirit, show you that you are making a difference, and pick you up to get involved another day.