Why I am backing Garlin Gilchrist for Detroit City Clerk:

“The Detroit city clerk’s office became a national embarrassment in 2016, when half of the votes cast by city voters were ineligible for recount because the poll books didn’t match the ballots, or were missing altogether. Given the pivotal role Michigan played in the presidential election, this could have been disastrous had a recount actually gone ahead. The incumbent blamed outdated equipment, poor training, and lack of support from the state. But she was the person in charge, and should have done more to address the issues, or at least call attention to them, before the balloting began. And it wasn’t the first time her office has screwed up.” (Detroit News)

Voting problems recurred during the primary last month. For more information, please check out previous stories of Support the Dream Defenders about Garlin.

Recently Garlin was interviewed by Devin Scillian (pronounced Skillian) on WDIV, an NBC-affiliated television station on August 13. Two excerpts.

Gilchrist: “[W]e can get to a point where voting and voter registration are more convenient, where being able to register for voting using online completely, that's something we can advocate for, so that it is something that people who use their cell phones all the time can use that to participate in the political process. We also can use technology, social media, the Internet, text messaging to inform people about their choices as voters as well. One of the things that has been under-utilized in the city clerk's office is using technology, using the Internet. The Department of Elections' FaceBook page hasn't been updated since 2013, but it would be safe to say that a majority of people in the City of Detroit use FaceBook. We should put information where people are. That's how we start integrating technology into the voting process.”

On getting voters to the polls:

Question: Is it the responsibility of the clerk to get more voters to the polls? Gilchrist: “It's the responsibility of the clerk to make the voting process work. I think that one of the reasons people don't participate in elections in Detroit is because they don't trust that the process works, and they are also not well informed about how the process should work. They don't know what's going to happen to their ballots when they cast it. They don't know what's going to happen to their absentee votes when they mail them back in. They don't know what's going to happen when they get to the polling location and don't know where to go and don't know what the ID requirements are. All this confusion leads to people wanting to check out of the process.”