Make no mistake the tears of all the players who have been seen either ‘teary-eyed’ or actually dropping watery tears down their faces have been fabricated. This is true of virtually all those who were seen to shed tears. Treacherous crisis mole agents provided these false witnesses with tear-sticks to artificially induce the water, all to fool the compromised, gullible public.

There is no reason to cry. No one died, and no one was injured. It’s all fake, fully proven, here.

Actually, a number of people were found to be laughing and smirking, including hospitalized people (though they are not officially hospitalized; instead, the facility is being used as a staging center for the drill).

It was as if they were gloating in it all. Now, then, the world is to believe that at the same time others were crying in grief or fear?

This faux tearing involves an individual named Natalie Vanderstay. A crisis actor it can be seen, clearly, that she is a potential star of the show. It makes sense that she is a major player, as she, herself, is a nurse:

Natalie Vanderstay, a 43-year-old nurse at UCLA Medical Center in Los Angeles, was near the front of the country music festival…

She is a part of a grand fraud, where money is being purged from the fully bamboozled, absolutely propagandized American and global public. Gullible to the extreme, all they need to see and hear is a ‘sad’ story, where a vulnerable victim shows the ultimate in bravery, associated with other heroics from the Samaritan rescue squad. That’s all it takes for tears of sympathy to flow, as well as hard-earned money from the pocket-book.

Some 8.5 million has already been ‘collected’ in this fraud fund, demonstrating how absolutely corrupt is this world and how fully compromised are the American people.

This is what she claims: that she took a high caliber machine gun round into her stomach. Then, she ran some 600 yards. While holding a gut full of seeping blood she then climbed or jumped over two concert fences, got to the street, got into a cab, and made her way to the hospital. Moreover, she did all this without bleeding to death in the process or without fainting, losing consciousness, at the minimum.

Is that not unbelievable to the extreme. She’s wonder-woman. No surprise the world is taken by this and is opening the floodgates of money for her and her associated liars. She has a heart that pumps more powerfully than the most well-trained soldier, and she is braver than any soldier in battle: not plausible.

Watch this fabricator in the video above. Moreover, hear her take much coaching from the terminally vile AP agents working on behalf of the criminal arch-Zionist cabal.

The screen-captures above alone prove the degree of her fraud and that she is staging this for her Zionist masters.

The video proves the degree of desperation of the Zionists, that they will play every dirty trick in their playbook to make this hold. One such dirty trick is the induction of fake tears, Hollywood-style. This is through the use of tear-sticks, which contain aromatic irritants that induce tears.

It happens with the full knowledge of all attending media moles, who, in fact, are participating in this criminal act. The break occurs, then, there is the close-up as she attempts to produce those artificial tears. There can be no doubt about it, and it is hard proof of the degree of the scam.

She is attempting to deal with the irritation from the tear stick, which is quite uncomfortable, explaining the squeezing of the eyes and the facial contortions. Anyone can see that this isn’t real tearing, that is from grief, fright, or despair.

She was supposed to have been shot by a high-powered gun. Where are her wounds? She was shot in the stomach and leg. Is this the best that can be done by Zionist Hollywood? There is no faux realism to any degree with this? No one finds it plausible that she was hurt to any degree and she certainly isn’t a gunshot victim. That is patently a lie, easily proven.

There are numerous other frauds associated with the involved hospitals, like this man. Can anyone believe it? There is no hospital staff to deal with it? Instead, crisis actors, so-called Good Samaritans, do so, hauling people into emergency rooms in such a manner? It is a physical impossibility, and all thinking people know this.

What is the issue with people that they have no ability to scrutinize? Now, too, because of these fabricators, because of blatant, obvious lies: because of this, people are giving their hard-earned money in empathy. What could be more criminal than this, that is to do this to people?

This is the domain of the Zionists. They are elements of a mere crime syndicate, one that operates through deception. Through imagery and mere amateur videos, through background noise and chaos, through acting out and through false witness, people have been deceived. It is written that this will occur – almighty God predicted it, but the people pay no heed.

There is a monumental effort by the criminally minded arch-Zionist cabal to attack the people of the land through this hoax. The goal is to categorically undermine the right to self protection and far more, to upend the 2nd Amendment. This is stated, here, as an absolute.

It is indisputable. The Zionist crime syndicate is attempting to spread great corruption in the land, just as it did in England and Australia. The same plot is in place, once again, against Americans.