For these hideous arch-Masonic Zionist vile ones is the sacredness of actual life and death nothing but a joke? While the great Zionist powers slaughter endless innocents, as they have done in Syria, Egypt, Afghanistan, Iraq, Yemen, and more, here they go, perpetrating a fake, making out a mere side-show, a scam and a hoax, as if real, while actual fatalities are completely neglected.

Humans wandering aimlessly about, others performing bizarre belly-flops, still others climbing over phony fences – others giving the high-five for directions—what a terminally corrupt, arch-fake it is. Despite its obvious fraud, what are the Zionist criminal minds doing? They are protesting that it truly is real and that anyone who deems otherwise is a ‘crank.’ Through such frauds draconian laws have been put in place, for instance, in Australia and England.

Ideally, for the gun control hoaxers the US, too, should be neutered with no allowance for the continuance of the 2nd Amendment.

There is staging throughout this amateur movie scene. There is that ever-present ‘guy with the black cowboy hat.’ What more proof does anyone need that there is nothing real at all and that it is all an act, fake to the extreme.

Always, in these hoaxes there are few if any EMTs and instead people carry the fake wounded about like so many sacks of potatoes, completely banned in injury transport protocol.

A bunch of people acting in a number of roles before high-quality cameras held by media agents – how in God’s name is this evidence of an actual event? Is it not evidence in the least but is, rather, strong evidence of a media shoot or, rather, amateur-like movie. What in the world, regardless, are all these people doing laying around on the pavement?  Additionally, notice all the garbage strewn about, all the water bottles and more. That, too, is fully contrived. Moreover, what a waste of resources it is, all to attempt to bamboozle the world and, in particular, care of arch-Zionist criminal minds actually, still, attempt to steal the guns.

Before the fire-crackers went off it can be seen that there is a man acting as a director. He raises his had and moves it back and forth, giving the signal. Then, the fake shooting noise is launched.

Even so, anyone can tell that those are not real gunshots and are not even as well established as fakes as the sound-effects in movies.

Yet another finger pointer is seen, here, a common action during these fake events:

After the fire-crackers are let loose, a number of people are seen to duck, while others stand tall, acting as if nothing is happening, like this man.

He surely tells it all about the real nature of this fraud. What is he doing, giving the you-know-what sign to the shooter from on-high? That is, see what he did next,

the expletive sign, of course, being smudged out. Sure, he is, right. He is going to act this way while a man is firing an ‘assault’ rifle from the 32nd story.

A junkyard car was deployed with popped airbags to create a sense of reality, with fake blood poured on the pavement. Note the arch-Masonic/Zionist single shoe, an essential in these arch-Zionist, mind-control, gun-grubbing hoaxes:

Cops standing about doing nothing is also a key element of the fake. This is a total, terminally corrupt hoax: make no mistake.

PhotoShop fakes are also essential, like this fake dead woman. Notice the softness of the image and how the foreground is no more distinct than the background. Notice what appear to be blur tool marks on the hair and also the neck. In all likelihood this image was digitally altered.

Look for such soft images in all fakes. They are routine, where the entire image appears contrived, where an image is placed in a stock background.

The brother smirks and smiles, saying there is nothing, here, to say or report:

The antics of the ‘brother,’ the supercilious nature of his response, is hard proof that this is a fake and an arch-scam.

There really is no need to prove it. The killing of sixty or so people is a most horrific, bloody affair, especially when being shot to death with a long-rifle. There would be real arterial blood throughout. No such blood is anywhere to be seen.