The death image of the purported shooter of the phony mass shooting, Stephen Paddock, is categorical fake. He supposedly shot himself. Yet, there is no evidence for this, even in the so-called leaked photos. There are no bullet wounds: no entrance or exit wounds. There are no gun blast wounds to his face, no deformation: no physical damage of any kind. So, from any careful scrutiny, clearly, this cannot represent a true image of a blast wound from a gunshot directly into the face or mouth.

Additionally, there is no bright red arterial blood. Instead, it is uniformly purplish-red in color, actually, the color of precisely fake blood. All this can be faked. As well, where did the red stain on the shirt arise from? It couldn’t have arisen from any mouth/head shot. Moreover, what about the dripping on the carpet from the gun towards the head? How did that happen? It is as if someone dripped it there in staging while he was on the ground.

Let us look, regardless, at the purported blood stain. It’s not much material, considering there at least five liters which must spill from his body, as the heart pumps that arterial and venous blood through the wound. There can’t be much than a liter of red liquid, there, if that:

Plus, it separates. Now, how can sticky, oozing, and spurting blood do that? Only fake blood, water soluble as it is, can do this. Here is the image, again, showing the area of diffusion:

It can be clearly seen that the red matter separates into a water fraction (and also the fact that the bullets were placed there, staged, is also obvious). Compare this to a real crime scene with actual human blood embedded into the carpet:

Is there any such obvious diffusion into a water fraction seen anywhere? Instead, the blood remains intact as one solid mass.

As well, he was supposedly shot or, rather, shot himself through the mouth. That means a bullet exited his brain. Then, where is the tissue, as expected? Where is the raw, yellowish-colored brain matter, as anticipated? Why is it nowhere to be seen? It is seen, though, in this image of the aftermath of a gunshot to a man’s neck, exiting the back of his head (warning: graphic image follows):

Is it not incredible, that is the difference? This is real, actual tissue, brain matter and more, and real, sticky blood found in the aftermath of this self-inflicted gunshot would. All this is lacking in the previous photo. As well, see the mass of sticky, thick non-water-soluble blood and how it varies in color, bright arterial versus darker venous.

Notice, also, the bullets, how they are carefully placed on the red matter and how no red matter taints them, a physical impossibility, one pointed out by one of our posters. Therefore, the bullets were placed on the red matter after it was spilled.

Also, see how he is fabricating his own death. Paddock is not dead in the least in this image. He still has muscle tone in the neck muscles:

It is clear that he is not decorticate and that, rather, his muscles are fully intact and that they are contracting in this position. Therefore, to make him appear dead it is likely that the image was put through a filter to make his skin appear pale.

Even so, the image does appear to be Paddock. He is an actor, like the rest, and is, thus, obviously not dead.

The color of the photo is, perhaps, convincing, that is the pallor of his facial skin, but the red matter isn’t. Nor does the so-called crime scene bear evidence for substantiation of any real gunshot wound. There is no full-five liter spillage of blood. Nor, once again, is there even the slightest degree of trauma to the face or mouth. It is all intact. Nor is there any carbon from such a direct blast wound, as would be expected to be seen from the application of the gun to the face, that is there is no powder burn.

To shoot the self in the mouth means to hold the gun in the mouth and fire. This results in instantaneous death. He could not have tossed the gun above his head.

Here is an additional revelation. Look at this, and look at it, again. How does this happen? How does a person shoot themselves in the mouth and end up like this? His leg is under the gun tripod? How did it get there? This would mean that he shot himself while laying exactly in this position. There is no other possibility. If so, then, why isn’t the gun by one of his hands?

In movies wounded people and dead are faked. This is through the use of dramatics, including the application of paint, which mimics actual blood. Through careful analysis, though, it can be readily seen that the matter is, in fact, applied and that there is no actual bleeding happening.

NOTE: now, the video is deleted, which did prove much evidence of staging and hoaxing. Thus, the evidence for the fraud has been purged. Yet, so are all the nodisinfo.com videos ever produced. All have been purged by Google, which is worthy of being boycotted because of its actions.

So, it does make sense that he is still alive. His actions prior do indicate this, such as the following reported by CNN:

The amount that he wired was $100,000. Who knows how much he was paid for his crucial role in this arch-treacherous scam. Clearly, though, all the people associated with him are in on the act and are also well-paid and well-compromised moles. There are countless thousands of dollars that have been applied for this treachery, much of it at the expense of the well-bamboozled, fully compromised US taxpayer.