A House bill to ban abortions after 20 weeks of pregnancy has remained stuck in limbo in the Senate for going on three weeks because Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell refuses to do what’s necessary to pass it.

Speaking with reporters Monday, all McConnell had to say was that the Pain Capable Unborn Child Protection Act would be brought up for a vote “at some point,” according to Townhall. That’s not good enough. The vote needs to happen now, so why isn’t it?

In an interview this week with The Daily Caller, Arizona Rep. Trent Franks explained why not, though he also offered a perfect solution for resolving this dilemma.

“The only impediment to this bill at this point is the Senate rule that allows the Democrats to keep it off the floor because they won’t help with the 60 votes needed to bring it to the floor,” he said. “It’s a bad rule. It means that the American people don’t get a debate and it’s something that has to be changed.”

This is known as the filibuster, but as noted by Franks, McConnell could easily just revoke it for this particular bill — just like he’s done for previous issues.

“When threatened with a never-ending judicial filibuster by Schumer and company, McConnell went ‘nuclear’ and changed the arcane Senate rules to remove the judicial filibuster,” Franks wrote in an op-ed for Fox News.

That’s right. McConnell had no qualms about ditching the filibuster to ensure then-Supreme Court nominee Neil Gorsuch was confirmed to the bench back in April. So why isn’t he doing the same thing this time around, especially given what’s at stake?

“Now there’s a bill before him to protect thousands of pain-capable, helpless little victims that die in this country every year, and he’s the leader of the United States Senate,” Franks told The Daily Caller. “And all we want is a fair vote. All we want (for) them is to have a little chance. That’s all we’re asking, and he should do that. Whatever it takes.”

“Or he should find something else to do, because he’s lost his way otherwise,” Franks concluded.

Agreed. There’s cowardice, and then there’s treachery, and in this case I honestly can’t tell which one is hampering the Senate majority leader.

Is he too scared to act, or does he secretly support abortions beyond 20 weeks? Either way, if he isn’t able to or doesn’t want to end the filibuster to pass the House’s abortion bill, then he needs to resign and let someone else take his place.

Please share this story on Facebook and Twitter and let us know what you think about Mitch McConnell’s disturbing refusal to end the filibuster.