The true character of a leader is often revealed during terror and tragedy. There was unfortunately plenty of both in Las Vegas overnight, but President Donald Trump’s message to law enforcement has provided a glimmer of optimism on a very dark day.

Late Sunday night, a gunman opened fire on a crowd of concertgoers from a high vantage point in the Mandalay Bay Hotel and Casino. In the chaos, at least 58 people were killed and hundreds were wounded.

The president has made several statements since the tragic event unfolded, but one of the most candid was a phone call to Las Vegas Metro Police Department Sheriff Joe Lombardo.

Trump’s call was captured by another cell phone, and a video clip of his message was shared by the city of Las Vegas.

“The fast response that you gave, saved hundreds of additional people from being killed,” Trump told Sheriff Lombardo directly.

That complimentary message was echoed during Trump’s public address to the nation Monday morning.

“I want to thank the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police department and all of the first responders for their courageous efforts and for helping to save the lives of so many,” he stated, according to a New York Times transcript.

“The speed with which they acted is miraculous and prevented further loss of life. To have found the shooter so quickly after the first shots were fired, is something for which we will always be thankful and grateful. It shows what true professionalism is all about,” he continued.

It’s hard to find much to like about the news from last night and this morning, but Trump’s message is one positive. It’s incredibly refreshing to have a president who praises police officers openly and with pride in his voice.

Compare the president’s heartfelt words of support to Hillary Clinton’s almost instantaneous effort to politicize the tragedy and attack conservatives, and it’s easy to see why Americans chose him as the president.

After eight years of President Obama repeating anti-police rhetoric and refusing to speak out about anti-law enforcement groups, Trump’s words are a welcome change.

No words can bring back the men and women who were killed by this terrible tragedy, but they can give comfort and encouragement to those who wear a uniform and have pledged their lives to protecting others.

Please press “Share on Facebook” to spread the president’s positive words for first responders.