Make no mistake without the slightest possible doubt there is only one possibility regarding the bombing of the federal Oklahoma City Murray Building. This is the fact that it is an elaborate scheme and hoax orchestrated by the arch-Zionist-controlled US federal government.

There is nothing real about it. Clearly, it is all staged. No one died, and no one was injured, including any children. There were no corpses there, no burned up people, no traumatized or injured individuals. There were no amputees and no individuals who suffered crush wounds, blunt trauma, and/or lacerations. All this is proven by a careful evaluation of the following video or for that matter any video involving this scam.

There was no ‘complicity of the federal government’ to injure and wound its citizens. This was a staged hoax, just like the terminally hideous, arch-fake Boston Smoke Bombing hoax and also Sandy Hoax. Claims otherwise are not correct. Regardless, there was no truck bomb, as advertising, here. Nor were there any car bombs detonated, as originally claimed by CBS News, for instance. Nor did, actually, as also claimed by CBS and other Zionist-controlled PR enterprises were 168 people killed. Nor were 19 children killed as part of the claim.

It’s all filthy lies, staged to the extreme. In this regard it should be remembered that it was CBS itself which claimed in the early hours that this had ‘all the hallmarks of Islamic extremism.’ The video, here, clearly shows the extremity of the fraud and arch-hoax, clearly showing no wounded people of any kind: demonstrating staging, crisis acting, and hoaxing.

In the video the scenes with the cars are hard proof of the degree of the fraud. This is because, incredibly, only the cars and vans are on fire, never the building. What is this fire? It is none other than Hollywood-style pyrotechnic fire. The activities of the firemen proves the scam. What is he doing there? He is standing about for the filming, doing nothing to put out the pyrotechnic fake.

Make no mistake they are just standing about and are making no attempt to put out the induced fires. Moreover, ALL the smoke is arising from the cars, not even a bit of it from the building. That building was blown up by pre-set detonator charges and, thus, was taken out by the Zionist-controlled federal government itself.

He has the hose in his hand and is not bothering to put out the fire. It’s all staged for the cameras.

This is a Hollywood-style scene and nothing more. No one can demonstrate otherwise.

With the image lightened up it can be seen that the firemen are there to stage the hoax and are paying no attention to any cars that might act as danger zones, exploding, for instance, with full gas tanks. No one is taking these fires seriously, proving they are staged.

What about these images? It couldn’t get more fake than this. Clearly, this is a fake: make no mistake. This is just tempura paint drizzled on. No one can see any wounds to any degree. This is even more evident in the images below, where this is clearly water-soluble paint applied as an artifact. It’s brushed and drizzled on as well as dabbed: all by a proficient moulage mole.

The same was done with the children, endless numbers of them. This one, in particular, was the center of the imagery and was held by a number of people.  Everyone can see it is moulage and that by no means is it a real injury.

The child truly did make the rounds, a true hoax-related all-star:

With the gurney toters, too, crisis moles abound. Here, they fully take over the job of legitimate EMTs.

Hard proof of staging and hoaxing with discovery of the camel-brown coat man acting out two separate scenes

Now, here is the infamous man in the camel-brown sport coat who was supposedly rescued from the building. There was no such rescue. This, too, was fully staged. It’s 100% fake; the man has no injuries and has no filth or dust on him.

In one scene he scoots down the ladder, all the way down until the camera pans away and when he is met by a few firemen. In yet another filming he is seen walking down the ladder. This is a separate film. This categorically confirms staging.

The doctor at-large assumed correctly, saying, all along, he thought it was a mere fake or, rather, a drill:

Some say that a picture is worth a thousand words. How about it being worth, at least, an element of emotional relief, that is as hard proof of a lie and a scam?

It’s to a degree revealing there really isn’t anything such as ‘homegrown terror’ and that, like the others, this is a concoction of arch-Zionist criminal minds.

Hoax index: beyond the pale, not measurable, this fake being so absolutely inane that it is beyond measure.

How desperate is the so-called federal government to achieve its filthy plots, this being one of many: a treacherous arch-lie, a fake, a fraud, a filthy money-grubbing scam – and the fully bamboozled, arch-fooled taxpayer is, once again, the victim.