No one really trusts a drunk. Yet, the world is taking their word for it that this Las Vegas shooting really did occur? There are a number of people who seemed to be thrilled at the thought that people were being shot dead and injured from on high by a well-armed gunman in Las Vegas. Here is the standard chaos-like scene associated with this scam. See how, on the one hand, there are people acting as if ducking bullets, while others are standing tall, not reacting:

Yet, what is seen, here? Now, there are supposedly bullets flying everywhere. Yet, what can be determined? There is a man acting as a director, far left, who is instructing, guiding, the people.

Now came hoaxer, the man in the white hat. He is gleeful to the extreme, and even gives a salute sign to the camera-person:

It can be seen that he is all smiles. There can be no doubt about that.

In the video there is another director on the far right screen, clearly directing, guiding the various actors.

There are additional happy hoaxers seen in the following video as well as various directors and agitators.

It can be seen that this is a clear hoax, where there are people ducking while the two people in the center are oblivious. In fact, they are making jest of the entire affair, cracking jokes, also refusing to follow orders.

Now, once again, all these images are seen after the ‘shooting’ is heard. Yet, incredibly, the world believes this, wholesale, to be true. It is not true. It is a Zionist plot, right in the entrails of arch-Zionist criminality, the wicked domain of the Las Vegas strip:

Here, the smiling, smirking man, clearly drunk, is told to ‘get down’ by one of the directors. The man repeatedly waves his arm up and down attempting to get the desired result, which is to make it look like a real movie. He refuses to do so:

Instead, he takes another slug from his beer or whatever drink he holds:

The directors are commonly seen throughout, some official law enforcement, others working for the movie elements. In particular, in this video there is seen a special scene, where people are guided to run, being told to duck and keep their heads down and to keep on running and running. At one point the guide agent gets upset, because people attempt to run towards the street.

Others jump in to assist him, so that the human cattle will go in the right direction before the cameras. To control this a gate is brought forth to stem the tide of humanity from going in the undesirable direction. Now, everyone knows that no one would do so in a real shooting, where people are being fired upon wildly with, essentially, machine gun fire:

All these teeming masses of humanity are involved in this scam, just like all the others. No one is certain what was the pay scale, but surely it was considerable enough to gain such mass cooperation. Regardless, the existence of coordinators and directors is hard proof of the degree of the hoax and scam.

All the various hundreds of people seen in this event are a part of the hoax and scam. It is easy to achieve on a movie-style set. All these people are extras, paid for their roles. No one believes that cops would be involved in directing traffic in the midsts of an actual shooting. Everyone can tell this is a fake, a mere scam.

It is clear from the videos that this is fully staged and that there is nothing real about it, not even possible.

There are numerous other happy hoaxers. They show up in the live videos. Moreover, they are even found in the hospitals:

All of them claim it was a real shooting. It is nothing other than an arch-treacherous lie.