(Natural News) The Las Vegas massacre that wounded over 500 people and has killed at least 59 (so far) was carried out by an American who converted to Islam and was working on behalf of ISIS, Reuters is now reporting.

Islamic State has claimed responsibility for a shooting that killed at least 50 people and wounded over 400 in Las Vegas early on Monday, and said the attacker had converted to Islam a few months ago.

“The Las Vegas attack was carried out by a soldier of the Islamic State and he carried it out in response to calls to target states of the coalition,” the group’s news agency Amaq said in reference to the U.S.-led coalition fighting the group in the Middle East.

The ISIS connection is further reinforced by the fact that ISIS released a video last year that specifically named Las Vegas as one of their targets for domestic terrorism. Via PJ Media:

A new video released by ISIS today that heavily praised Orlando nightclub shooter Omar Mateen also made specific threats against San Francisco and Las Vegas.

The video, released by ISIS in Mosul, rolls images of Mateen and news footage of the Pulse attack on June 12.

Also shown is the footage shot by Larossi Abballa during his June 13 attack on a French police commander and his family.

Remember, the Las Vegas attack very closely resembles the Pulse nightclub attack in Orlando which was also carried out by ISIS.

The “official” narrative of this event claims that Stephen Paddock, an elderly senior citizen, carried as many as 10 rifles to his hotel room on the 32nd floor, with no help from anyone. Then, the story goes, he manhandled a full-auto weapon for many sustained minutes — an act that requires tremendous physical stamina all by itself. (Full auto weapons are VERY difficult to control and take tremendous endurance to fire for any length of time.)

As Shootings.news has reported, questions are already being raised about whether Stephen Paddock acted alone. Several witnesses reported multiple gunmen on the scene, and the presence of multiple rifles indicates that more than one person had planned to be engaged in this tactical assault on innocent civilians. More and more, this is looking like a coordinated, well-planned attack involving multiple people, not the act of a “lone gunman” who just snapped all of a sudden.

Besides, the very idea that a 64-year-old man somehow carried 10 rifles and thousands of rounds of ammunition to his room all by himself seems absurd. Ammo is incredibly heavy. Depending on the caliber, 1,000 rounds can easily weight 75 lbs or more. How did this one man carry all this gear to his room without help? I suppose he could have done it one smaller box at a time, over a period of several days, but it’s a tremendous effort that seems unlikely to have been carried out by a senior citizen.

Our prayers go out to all the victims of this heinous crime, which increasingly looks to be carried out in a coordinated attack, perhaps planned by ISIS.

Follow more news on all this at Shootings.news.