WASHINGTON, D.C. – In keeping with his campaign promise to bring manufacturing jobs back to the American people, President Donald J. Trump signed a controversial executive order on Monday banning the use of industrial robots in factories throughout the United States.

“The Protecting American Manufacturing Jobs from Robots Act that I’m about to sign will bring jobs back to workers like you who have lost them to robots,” President Trump told a crowd of employees at a 3D print manufacturing company in Northern Virginia. “It’s a very sad thing when you look at the tremendous number of jobs we’re losing to robots,” the president said, adding, “We’re spending billions and billions of dollars on these things and they don’t tell you this but they’re coming from China.”

Under Trump’s Protecting American Manufacturing Jobs from Robots Act, millions of jobs, many of which have been proven too hazardous for humans to perform, such as manual handling and welding, will become available throughout the Midwestern United States in the months to come.

“This is a very significant development for the defense industry,” said Consolidated Robotics spokesperson Ronald Belling during an appearance on Fox News. The Texas-based defense contractor, which suffered a catastrophic accident during a 2015 weapons demonstration, hopes to take advantage of the new executive order by offering hundreds of entry-level positions at its testing facilities in rural Texas. “Robots are certainly more efficient when it comes to performing mundane tasks,” Belling said, continuing, “However, human workers are far easier to replace when something goes wrong.”

The Protecting American Manufacturing Jobs from Robots Act is the latest in a series of executive orders designed, in Mr. Trump’s own words, to bring about “a great revival of American manufacturing.” In an effort to pave the way for the coming revival, the president signed two executive orders last Friday – one ordering a review of current trade agreements and the other establishing an Office of Trade and Manufacturing.