It is surely tiresome yet, once again, the powerful ones behind the French government – criminal Zionist agents – have perpetrated another hoax, faking the death of a police officer, while blaming it on Islam. There can be no doubt that it is an arch-fake, just like Charlie Hebdo and countless others. Make no mistake it is false blame plus Islamophobia, clearly proven, here, per the National:

Who finds this plausible? Once again, it is a lone wolf ‘Islamist’, an agent of ISIL, who strikes, wildly attacking police officers with a long gun, variously reported as a rifle and/or AK-47? Where could he have procured such weaponry in autocratic, police state-like France? See the classical arch-Zionist symbolism, invoking, alternatively, “2001” and also the standard Mossad-style naming of a Muslim, the ‘Abu’ as if this signifies a terrorist mind. Moreover, it is not merely but “Abu Yusuf” and if that is not enough, the surname is “Bejiki”, for Belgium, as in “Baghdadi (aka Simon Elliot),” as in Baghdad. This is all the work of the Mossad and its collaborators: mere Islamophobic hoaxing.

Then, of course, there is the leveraging of the Qur’an, although it is simultaneously said that the purported perpetrator was “not going to the mosque” and was “not religious.” Could it possibly get more inane than this? It may be recalled that Qur’ans were used as props or imagined ones during Sept. 11, 2001, when the Mossad and its assets bombed into oblivion the WTC complex.

The timing cannot be a coincidence. The Rothschild-based Islamophobes just had to take advantage of such a hoax, considering the timing of the French vote just hours ahead:

Of course, the ‘killer’ was shot dead: how convenient. Now, while this is a fake consider the value of such a claim, the distraction value at the least. France has been involved with covertly supporting Middle Eastern-based terrorists, mostly foreigners, who have invaded and attacked Syria. These terrorists have murdered countless thousands of people, displacing millions of others. Such a fake is an ideal scheme to distract the world from criminal acts by France’s power-brokers.

‘Fear’ and ‘panic’ are ideal schemes, and it is known that the majority of people will fall for this, will presume this as real without a second thought:



 Sure, he did, right. He fired point-blank six or more shots at the officers. It would be a blood-bath. Where, then, is all the blood? Where is the legitimate crime scene? Wait a minute, though. It had to be real. Everyone was “afraid,” scared out of their minds. Plus, ISIL (that is the Israeli Secret Intelligence for Levant) claimed it as real, even taking responsibility, even claiming that it was committed to advance the “Caliphate.”

Who is the (fake) dead cop? It is Xavier Jugele, who can only be seen in this seemingly staged photo:

Is it possible that the head has been placed in this imagery for purposes of the hoax? He is front-and-center and all by himself. Moreover, there is no reflection of the image in the glass pane. How is that possible?

The Jugele image casts no reflection or shadow, though his face appears to be well-lit and it appear that there is ‘light’ on the bridge of his nose:

The supercilious smile is sure indicative of the nature of the scam. Even so, nothing about the image appears real. How about the emblem? It appears to be a cut-and-paste hack-job:

 

 Note the pixiliation and jagged edging found around the image badge. Some will say it is a compression issue. Yet, the rest of the detail on the uniform is precise and without such edging. Moreover, it is not found in a real image taken as a screenshot from a police uniform, as seen, far right.

As well, it appears the face has been cut-and-pasted into the image, with PhotoShop cut line being seen under the eyes, particularly evident under and about the left eye, where certain oddities can be seen:

Those do appear to be PhotoShop cut lines under the left eye. The nose bridge appears to be manipulated by the blur tool. It is odd that the reflection or light ends right at the top of the bridge of the nose.  It does not have the appearance of natural skin or an actual light-based reflection. Who can demonstrate otherwise?

Here is real imagery of the photo of a police officer at some distance. There are no cut lines under the eyes and the bridge of the nose is natural with normal reflection.

Regardless of any digital manipulation it is a clear fake, as is evidenced by the imagery at-large:

Why are the two cops aiming in different directions? There is no danger on that street. It’s all staged. Moreover, what in the world is this policeman doing aiming his gun directly at the camera-person, and why is his cohort aiming his gun to the ground?

There are cameras abounding everywhere, right in the midst of all the ‘action.’

This is an extremely poorly conceived and orchestrated arch-fake. Nothing about it appears realistic.

This can be nothing other than a fake. The videos show much evidence of extensive staging.