During an interview with the Wall Street Journal President Trump said he is both a nationalist and a globalist.

President Trump made the statement while dismissing rumors of a growing split inside his White House between nationalists led by Steve Bannon and globalists led by Gary Cohn, Jared Kushner, and Ivanka Trump.

“Hey, I’m a nationalist and a globalist,” President Trump said. “I’m both. And I’m the only one who makes the decision, believe me.”

The shocking comment comes on the heals of news that the Make America Great administration will not abolish North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), but rather, renegotiate it.

According to the WSJ, President Trump was prepared to end NAFTA with a dramatic announcement at a political rally in Pennsylvania marking his 100th day in the White House.

“As rumors spread of the possible action, Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto called the president urging him not to pull out of the accord,” the WSJ reported. “‘Let me think about it,’ Mr. Trump said. Within a half hour a call came in from Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau with a similar request.”

President Trump told the WSJ that after the talks with the President Nieto and Prime Minister Trudeau he was convinced to give a “NAFTA renegotiation” a shot before scrapping the deal which has essentially governed trade relations for the U.S. Over the past 23 years.

“They’re serious about it and I will negotiate rather than terminate,” President Trump said.

A senior Toronto bank executive told the WSJ that this administrative duplicity on global trade was evident by the calls President Trump’s Chief economic advisor Gary Cohn and his Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin have made  on numerous occasions to senior Canadian business officials in recent weeks, assuring them that no significant changes to NAFTA are expected.

“This is a disputatious White House and we have to understand this is going to spill out into the public,” the Canadian banker told the WSJ. “Atop the pyramid is Mr. Trump, who in his 1987 book, ‘The Art of the Deal’ wrote that he values flexibility above all: ‘I never get too attached to one deal or one approach.’”

“The trouble here is I don’t see how you get a course correction when there isn’t a course. It’s just erratic,” 8-year President Reagan staffer Craig Fuller told the WSJ. “He needs to go look at the two factions inside the White House and get rid of one of them. You can’t operate that way in the White House.”

– See more at: http://www.trunews.com/article/president-trump-im-a-nationalist-and-a-globalist#sthash.sESbJwuu.dpuf