The post 9/11 world that we used to live in originally left those who could be associated with the terrorists treading very carefully. Anyone who so much as looked middle eastern was careful to distance themselves from anything that could even be remotely connected to terrorists, or terrorist sympathizers. And rightly so, considering that the entire country was out for blood, in an effort to avenge our brothers and sisters that died on that day. In some cases, even those of Jewish decent, who’ve never lived anywhere but the United States were swept up in the racial profiling, and the ones that I know didn’t even mind it because they understood that penance did need to be paid.

Fast forward 16 years to a time when terrorism is just a prevalent, possibly even more so, but instead of having eradicated it here in the United States, we have special groups advocating for those of the same religion who want to not only come to our country illegally but practice a religion that encourages them to kill us. There are all kinds of exceptions being made for those who have ties to terrorists, to the point that the middle eastern Muslims are actually a protected class.

The same issue has finally come to a head in England following the Manchester terror attack earlier in the week. There are those right out in the open, at the scene of this terrible tragedy who would willingly affiliate themselves with the same ideology that caused this mass murdered to take out dozens of men, women, and children with a shrapnel bomb, and the entire world is being brow beat by liberals into smiling and holding hands, assuming that these Muslims won’t actually do what their religion tells them and try to spill my blood.

“A Muslim woman was criticised after she wore a burka emblazoned with weapons in a TV interview about the Manchester terror attack

The woman, named only as ‘Sid’, was part of a group of Muslims interviewed by Channel 4 News journalist Krishnan Guru-Murthy in the Rusholme area of Manchester, which is home to the largest Libyan community in Europe.

The group vehemently condemned the Manchester Arena attack by 22-year-old suicide bomber Salman Abedi, who is of Libyan descent.

But some viewers criticised Sid over her decision to wear a burka printed with a pistol, grenade, knife and machine gun spelling the word ‘love’.

 One wrote: ‘Channel 4 news contributor in full hijab, top to toe with comedy glasses, images of knife & hand grenade emblazoned across the front! Ffs.’

Another Twitter user said: ‘Channel 4 actually broadcast this. Nothing says love like a hand grenade & flick-knife.’

 Others branded Sid ‘disgusting’ and accused her of ‘taking the p***’.

The interview formed part of a programme broadcast on Wednesday evening.

In it, Sid said she was ‘devastated’ by the news and urged people to ‘stand together’.

She said: ‘I don’t need to prove anything. I’m a good Muslim, I know I’m a good Muslim, my friends, everyone I interact with, they know I’m a good Muslim.

‘I’m not here to prove anything, but I’m here to say that we need to stand together, stand united, and help fight this. As Manchester, we are standing together.

‘I was at the vigil yesterday, fantastic crowd. We were there together to support each other and that is what we are here for. We will tackle it together.’

 Commenting on the decision to include Sid in debate, Channel 4 said: ‘when it was brought to our attention that the woman being interviewed by Krishnan Guru-Murthy was wearing a gun-themed t-shirt, we removed the online versions to investigate.

‘We are now satisfied that the intention of that image is to subvert weaponry and is an anti-violence protest t-shirt.

‘The image was made famous in 2013 when the singer Jennifer Hudson was pictured wearing a very similar design, which spelled out the word “love” in guns and other weapons. She told fans “it’s time to turn all of that into this LOVE”.

‘In this debate members of the local Muslim community gave their reactions to the bombing and the “backlash”. Among the contributions, several spoke of their devastation and also took the chance to speak out against extremism.'”

This woman is wearing a burka, the symbol of Islam, with weapons used in war to kill those who’s deaths we are supposed to be memorizing, and it’s just ok because ya know, she says that she’s a good Muslim and freedom has to extend to those who claim to be a part of a group that kills people. I guess it’s a good thing that mass murderers always draw the line at lying. I mean, let’s ignore that she brought symbols of death to a place where people are mourning, we have to assume that that too, was just an expression of her freedom, and she’d never do anything wrong.

She’s a “good Muslim” she says. Do you know what a good Muslim does? They do what the Quran says. And do you know what the Quran says to do? Kill us.