FOUNTAIN HILLS, Ariz.—Almost as soon as Senator Jeff Flake announced that he would not seek reelection, reporters began calling Joe Arpaio. As Flake took a stand against Trumpism, Frank Sinatra’s “My Way” blared from the former Maricopa County Sheriff’s flip phone, the song Trump danced to at his Inauguration. All day, reporters called to ask if he could win Flake’s seat. “Of course,” said Arpaio.

A few weeks before, he’d taken a phone call from Steve Bannon, and asked him to put in a word for him as a prospective head of the U.S. Marshal’s Service. “Can you imagine me being Marshal,” he asked Bannon, “and your main job is to lock up fugitives, including illegals?”

“Think of that,” he went on. “I would have a gun and badge” in case “the president wanted to put me on a special assignment.”

After more than a decade as sheriff, Arpaio lost his bid for reelection last year, and with it his spacious office overlooking the Phoenix skyline. But he’s not ready to cede the spotlight. At his new place, in a modest suburban strip mall, framed news stories about his exploits line the walls. Versions of the headline “America’s Meanest Sheriff” appear above three articles. He no longer has a press office, but the calls keep coming, and he seems to relish the attention. He keeps two thick stacks of reporters’ business cards held together with rubber bands in his desk drawer—one for national news outlets, and the other for international. He keeps track of his media appearances on a ledger he updates with a Smith Corona typewriter.

Why consider a run for senate at 85? “You think I have an ego, that I’d do it for media?” he asked. “Come on, I don’t need that to get media.”

Indeed, Arpaio had made fresh headlines just days earlier when a federal judge refused to vacate his contempt-of-court conviction, despite the fact that Arpaio had been formally pardoned by President Trump. Arpaio dismissed the conviction as a mere “misdemeanor” blemish, “same as a barking-dog conviction,” though it stems from another judge’s ruling that as sheriff he refused to stop racially profiling Latinos.