President Donald Trump can be seen in a newly revealed videotape hobnobbing with the British-born music publicist at the heart of son Donald Trump Jr's sensational meeting with a Russian lawyer.

In the 2013 video, released Wednesday by CNN, Trump is seen dining in Las Vegas just two seats down from Robert Goldstone, who reached out to Donald Trump Jr. with the offer of dirt on Hillary Clinton.

Goldstone claimed the information had been obtained by pop singer Emin Agalarov, who is seen seated next to Trump in the video.

The footage, obtained by CNN, shows Trump fraternizing with Goldstone, Agalarov, and Agalarov's father, billionaire Agas Agalarov.

The video was shot in connection with the 2013 Miss Universe pageant, which the Trump Organization owned and which was held in Moscow.

It emerged just as Trump said in an interview with Reuters that until recently he was unaware of his son's meeting with Russian lawyer Natalia Veselnitskaya, as set up by the Goldstone contacts.

Trump said on Wednesday he was unaware of his son Donald Trump Jr.'s meeting last year with a Russian lawyer at the heart of a White House controversy, telling Reuters he only learned of it a couple of days ago.

Asked if he knew that his son was meeting with the Russian lawyer Natalia Veselnitskaya in June last year, Trump said in a White House interview: 'No, that I didn't know until a couple of days ago when I heard about this.'

One of the video clips shows Trump flattering the Agalarovs before dinner.

'Whoa, look at this! Now I'm glad we're going to dinner,' Trump says after meeting their mom and sister, according to CNN. 'What a beautiful mother you have! Well, you produce good looking stuff, right? Beautiful stuff.'

Trump hailed the Agalarovs the following day at the pageant. 'These are the most powerful people in all of Russia, the richest men in Russia,' Trump says.

Trump calls Russia a 'great country' but says the relationship can be improved.

'It really is a great country. It's a very powerful country that we have a relationship with, but I would say not a great relationship, and I would say this can certainly help that relationship. I think it's very important,' Trump says in response to a question.

He said having the pageant in Moscow, for which he got paid millions, was a form of 'detente.'

'I have great respect for Russia. And to have the Miss Universe pageant in Moscow, in the most important location, the most beautiful building, in your convention center, with such amazing partners, I mean it's going to be fantastic for detente, or whatever you want to say,' Trump said. 'I think it's a great thing for both countries, and honestly they really wanted it in Russia -- badly. ... Politically they wanted it.'

Trump Jr. eagerly agreed to meet the woman he was told was a Russian government lawyer who might have damaging information about Democratic rival Hillary Clinton as part of Moscow's official support for his father's presidential election campaign, according to emails the son released on Tuesday.

In the interview, Trump said he did not fault his son for holding the meeting. 'I think many people would have held that meeting,' the president said.

The emails were the most concrete evidence that Trump campaign officials welcomed Russian help to win the 2016 election, a subject that has cast a cloud over Trump's presidency and prompted investigations by the U.S. Justice Department and Congress.

In Wednesday's interview, Trump also said he directly asked Russian President Vladimir Putin if he was involved in what U.S. intelligence says was Russian meddling in the presidential campaign and that Putin had insisted he was not.

Trump said he spent the first 20 or 25 minutes of his more than two-hour meeting with Putin last Friday in Germany on the election meddling subject.

'I said, did you do it? And he said no, I did not. Absolutely not. I then asked him a second time in a totally different way. He said absolutely not,' Trump said.

Trump doubled down on his support for his son Donald Trump Jr on Wednesday, saying that attacks against him and the administration were the 'greatest Witch Hunt in political history'.

Trump said that his son did a 'good job' on Fox News, where Trump Jr admitted he 'would have done things differently' after it was revealed he met with a Russian-linked lawyer with the hopes of getting 'dirt' on Hillary Clinton.

He then slammed 'Fake News', saying that anonymous sources were 'made up and do not exist'.

'My son Donald did a good job last night. He was open, transparent and innocent. This is the greatest Witch Hunt in political history. Sad!' he said in a tweet on Wednesday morning.

He tweeted that his White House is functioning 'perfectly' after a series of reports his administration has been rocked by the latest revelations in the Russia scandal.

'The W.H. is functioning perfectly, focused on HealthCare, Tax Cuts/Reform & many other things. I have very little time for watching T.V.' the president tweeted, just as a Senate hearing for the replacement for fired FBI director James Comey got underway.

The president's media offensive comes after a day when he mostly left it to Trump Jr to defend himself.

Trump Jr was interviewed by Fox News' Sean Hannity - a staunch supporter of Donald Trump - on Tuesday night, hours after it was revealed special counsel Robert Mueller is keen on reviewing the president's son's emails.

In what was his first appearance since the scandal broke in the New York Times over the weekend, Don Jr attempted to explain away his meeting with Natalia Veselnitskaya on June 9 last year.

'In retrospect I probably would have done things a little differently. Again this is before the Russia mania, this is before they were building this up in the press,' Trump Jr told Hannity in the Fox News sit-down.

'For me this was opposition research, they had something you know maybe concrete evidence to all the stories I'd been hearing about, probably under reported for years not just during the campaign so I think I wanted to hear it out.

THE RUSSIAN MEETING - AND THE QUESTIONS NEEDING ANSWERED Donald Trump Jr's meeting with a Russian lawyer after the offer of 'incriminating' official material about Hillary Clinton has set off a firestorm around Washington. But confirmation that the Trump campaign met with a Russian to get dirt has only raised more questions.  Who leaked the fact of the meeting and the emails? The bombshell that Donald Trump Jr had met a Russian lawyer and the subsequent release of the email in which he said 'I love it' to the idea of official Moscow dirt on Clinton has electrified U.S. politics - and could be a third rail for the White House. The fact of the meeting was disclosed to White House ethics officials in updated forms from Jared Kushner. That means there are plenty of people with knowledge of the forms who could have leaked. The Trump White House will want to focus on the idea of Obama-friendly holdovers as the likely source. But anyone who has an ax to grind against the Trump family could also gain; and that means anyone who is not in the Jared Kushner camp will be a possibility. However the email leak is much more intriguing, because it could have come from anyone with access to the email - which means Rob Goldstone, the paunchy British PR would be prime suspect. Also in the frame: Putin's Kremlin, who could well have had the email from one of the Agalarovs. Then there is the Robert Mueller investigation. It is unknown if they have accessed Don Jr's emails yet but if they have, could also be a candidate for leaking. And U.S. intelligence agencies could have the emails too. Goldstone and the Agalarovs are foreigners with no right to be shielded from spying, while Don Jr's name could have been 'unmasked'.  What actually happened at the meeting? So far we have only a sketchy version of events, with Don Jr's story and that of the lawyer herself roughly matching - but offering no real details. Still to be thrashed out are whether the lawyer really did walk out telling the Trump campaign nothing valuable at all; and what Jared Kushner and Paul Manafort heard. Who really set up the meeting - and why? Rob Goldstone acted for his client, pop singer Emin, who claimed to have been called by a Russian prosecutor with information when he emailed Don Jr.  But who actually initiated it remains murky. Russian prosecutors do not just pick up the phone to pop stars who are sons of Putin-connected billionaires. That makes the Kremlin prime suspect for setting up the meeting.  And it could well have done so as a feint to see how the Trumps reacted. By rushing to reply 'I love it' Don Jr made clear that an unsolicited approach from an apparently connected Russian would get top-level attention.  So the Kremlin could both safely assume that if it really wanted to tip the scales with real information, it would get an audience.  And it would have a handy piece of 'kompromat' [information which can be used to blackmail or influence the subject] regardless - as Don Jr is finding out today. If we didn't know about this meeting, could there have been others?  The drip-drip of undisclosed meetings raises the possibility Don Jr met other Russians - for the simple reason that as a private citizen he does not need to make any declaration. Until he definitively lists everyone he has met, the possibility of more is out there. Then there are any other Trump aides or associates who are not now White House employees whose meetings remain unaccounted for.  Who was the lawyer Trump Jr met really working for? Natalia Veselnitskiya claimed to be campaigner for inter-country adoptions. They were banned not by the U.S. but by Russia in retaliation for sanctions in Kremlin-linked companies and individuals. So who funded her campaign? Putin is the obvious candidate but his usual method for such campaigns is  to have it run remotely through a trusted oligarch.  How exactly do the Trumps and the Agalarovs know each other?   The precise beginning of the relationship between two family-run real estate empires, one from Russia, the other from Manhattan, is still not clear. The Agalarovs turned up in Las Vegas in 2012 to woo the Trumps to bring Miss Universe to Moscow. They got the red carpet, literally, posing with Donald Trump. So was that their first encounter? Donald Trump Jr had been in Moscow a lot around 2008 exploring opportunities there but he did not seem to be associated with the Agalarovs. What happened to get them to Vegas is still a mystery.