Two individuals with strong convictions on  illegal immigration have been appointed to high-level positions at the Department of Homeland Security.

Jon Feere, a former legal policy analyst for the Center for Immigration Studies (CIS), and Julie Kirchner, the former executive director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform (FAIR), have both been hired.

Two hard-line opponents of illegal immigration have obtained high-level advisory jobs at federal immigration agencies in the Department of Homeland Security. Jon Feere, a former legal policy analyst for the Center for Immigration Studies, or CIS, has been hired as an adviser to Thomas D. Homan, the acting director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, according to Homeland Security spokesman David Lapan. At Customs and Border Protection, Julie Kirchner, the former executive director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, or FAIR, has been hired as an adviser to Customs and Border Protection acting Commissioner Kevin McAleenan, said Lapan.

Kirchner served as policy adviser during President Trump’s campaign and openly ripped the Obama administration for “trying to force” more refugees on the American people.

Feere meanwhile, was a fierce critic of former President Obama’s executive orders granting amnesty to some illegal immigrants.

During a segment on PBS this past summer, he noted that Americans have been very generous when it comes to illegal immigrants, but that they’d had enough.

“I think Americans are starting to sour on even the concept of immigration, because they see people who are not playing by the rules, who are breaking the laws, who are actually lying to us, cutting in front of lines of people who are playing by the rules, taking the time and the money and the effort to do it the right way,” he claimed.

CNN is reporting that the hiring of Feere and Kirchner has alarmed immigrants’ rights activists, particularly the Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC), a controversial group itself.

There is little doubt the alarm stems from seeing two hard-line illegal immigration opponents with every intention of carrying out President Trump’s agenda to secure the border and enforce the law.

Law-abiding Americans and legal immigrants should have little concern.

Support President Trump’s new anti-illegal immigration hires? Like and share this post!