Guess that whole apology thing wasn’t sincere after all.

Z-list actress and comedienne Kathy Griffin is backing off a ‘sincere’ apology for posting a vile image of her holding a bloodied and detached replica of President Trump’s head.

Sensing her already insignificant career had been flushed down the toilet (or maybe the Squatty Potty), Griffin has lawyered up and is arguing that she is a victim of bullying by the Trump family.

No seriously, that’s the argument.

Bloom is the daughter of noted feminist ambulance chaser, Gloria Allred.

Kathy Griffin is holding a press conference on Friday to complain about the “bullying from the Trump family that she has endured” following the release of a photo spread showing the comedian holding up a bloodied head of President Trump. Lisa Bloom, the daughter of famed feminist litigator Gloria Allred and Griffin’s newly hired lawyer, made the shocking announcement on Twitter. Bloom says that she and Griffin will “announce the true motivation” behind the photo shoot.

Imagine the chutzpah it takes to inspire lunatic fringe anti-Trump haters by glorifying the beheading of a President, then turn around and accuse his family of “bullying.”

Not to mention the trauma she inflicted on the President’s 11-year-old son.

If Griffin wants to experience true trauma and bullying, she should look to fellow comedienne Roseanne Barr, who offered up this remedy to knock her back to reality (Warning: Language):

That is far more forceful than anything the Trump family responded with.

First Lady Melania Trump questioned Griffin’s mental health, but who wouldn’t after seeing that photo?

“As a mother, a wife, and a human being, that photo is very disturbing. When you consider some of the atrocities happening in the world today, a photo opportunity like this is simply wrong and makes you wonder about the mental health of the person who did it,” she said.

What do you think of Griffin hiring a lawyer and complaining about ‘bullying?’ Share your thoughts with us below!