Just days after threatening Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Dr. Ben Carson, Rep. Maxine Waters continued her efforts by saying she would “take his a** apart.”

Waters’s new focus on Carson is puzzling, though she justifies it by saying he does not care about public housing residents. That’s right, the man who lifted himself out of poverty does not care about public housing residents.

Fox News host Tucker Carlson turned the tables on Waters, however, saying we need to take her seriously as a replacement for Carson.

“We should take her seriously on this subject,” Carlson said, calling Waters a “confirmed expert on the question on housing.”

What makes her a confirmed expert according to Tucker?

The fact that she owns a 6,000 square-foot mansion worth $4.3 million on the salary of a congressional representative.

On Wednesday night, Tucker Carlson took aim at Rep.Maxine Waters(D-CA) for her recent remarks on HUD Secretary Dr. Ben Carson, including how she was going to “take his ass apart.” The Fox News host mentioned that he had previously mocked Waters in the past, but said “we should take her seriously” on the subject of housing. He noted her 6,000-square-foot $4.3 million mansion in a wealthy neighborhood in Los Angeles. “How could she afford a place like that after having spent the last 40 years working in government?” he asked. “We hate to speculate.”

Waters was named “one of the most corrupt members of Congress” by the Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington. Ethical concerns first arose from a case that involved steering $12 million in bailout funds to a bank where her husband sat on the board.

How else does one afford a nearly $5 million mansion, or the ability to pay your own daughter $750,000 to mail out campaign flyers?

The money has to be coming from somewhere. Is it the use of taxpayer funds for those items? Is money being steered from elsewhere?

Tucker Carlson might not want to speculate, but the people of her district might like to know.

Speaking of her constituents, Carlson also slammed Waters for living outside the district she represents, residing in her mansion in a mostly white, incredibly affluent location.

He pointed out that Waters represents a district that has the second highest black population in California, but the neighborhood she actually lives in is only 6% black.

Now that sounds like a woman who doesn’t care about public housing residents.

Perhaps a congressional ethics inquiry should be launched and investigators will ‘take her a** apart.’

Should Congress investigate Maxine Waters? Share your thoughts below!