There’s another so-called Trump investigation brewing. This one involves his time in transition from candidate to President-elect

During the transition, Presidents-elect are in limbo: they are still technically private citizens but do have to assume a few duties of their future office. This includes travel.

The Government Accountability Office is investigating the Trump transition for what accusers are saying are “conflicts of interest.”

The review comes at the request of Rep. Elijah Cummings, D-Md., and Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass., who sent a letter to the GAO in November 2016. The letter recounts Trump’s various business interests and questions about whether he had followed through on promises to separate himself from his empire. “Mr. Trump’s conflicts of interest raise questions about the taxpayer-funded expenditures associated with the transition,” the two wrote. For example, Trump charged the Secret Service $1.6 million for flights that were on planes that he owned. The letter states that foreign leaders, who had difficulty reaching Trump, talked to him on his personal cellphone, raising concerns about security.

The request is coming from two Democrat members of Congress, so it is almost surely political and of little merit. The Democrats are extremely desperate to pin anything on Trump, especially since Russia conspiracy is dying a painful death at the hands of the truth.

As for the charges, I don’t think either holds water. It has long been an unfounded accusation that President Trump initially ran for the office to enrich himself and his family. The problem with that theory is that Trump Organization has been subject to boycotts and contract terminations because of Trump’s decision to run for President, and he was already a multi-billionaire.

As for charging the Secret Service, it is only logical that Trump would recoup costs associated with transporting a large Secret Service contingent.

Also, if President Trump was looking for a quick payday, why would he forgo his entire salary and donate it back to the government?

This is just another waste of the taxpayers’ dollars. The GAO should be focusing on the billions in waste at HUD and DoD.

Do you think this Trump investigation has any merit? Share your thoughts.