A top Republican staffer at the forefront of the communications strategy on a number of contentious environmental issues over the last four years is leaving Capitol Hill to become the head of communications and regulatory affairs for oil giant Chevron's petrochemical business.

Kristina Baum, who is communications director for the House Science, Space and Technology Committee, is announcing her departure Wednesday and stepping down from her role at the end of next week.

Before moving to the House, Baum was the communications chief in the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee when Sen. Jim Inhofe, R-Okla., was the chairman of the panel that oversees the Environmental Protection Agency.

"I'm thrilled that Kristina will be joining us and it couldn't be at a more perfect time," said Bryce Hallowell, Chevron's public affairs manager. "Given this company's growth profile, we are attracting some of the best talent in the country and Kristina is a perfect example."

In an email she will be sending out Wednesday afternoon, Baum said it "has been a privilege to serve in both chambers of Congress over the last number of years and alongside such talented colleagues."

Baum noted that she was honored to work with Inhofe in passing the Toxic Substances Chemical Act reform in addition to "a long-term highway and infrastructure bill, oversight efforts in cutting government red tape, and a host of other memorable committee accomplishments. Undoubtedly, my time on Capitol Hill has been full of fond memories and incredible colleagues."

She told the Washington Examiner that her last day on Capitol Hill will be July 28, after which she will be moving to Texas to work for Chevron Phillips Chemical, a joint venture between Chevron Corp. and Phillips 66. She will have the dual role of chief spokesperson while working on government relations issues. She will start Aug. 14 at Chevron Phillips' headquarters in the Woodlands.

She said she is "honored to be a part of growing team that is leading the way in our nation's petrochemical development," according to the advanced copy of her farewell email to colleagues and members of the media.

"To the fourth estate, I'm grateful for the professionalism many of you have demonstrated and pursued over the years," Baum wrote. "Between honored embargoes, exclusives, press conferences and an assortment of briefings and hearings, your keen interest in the issues at hand has been instrumental and valuable to the work we do here.

"Without your dogged quest for truth and facts, many of our critical stories would not be available to American taxpayers. I won't be that far, and I look forward to continuing to work with you in my new role," she said.

"I leave behind a fantastic staff here at the science committee, and I encourage you to reach out to our press secretary, Thea McDonald, as the primary press contact until my successor is named."