Vice President Mike Pence is adamant that President Donald Trump will deliver on his campaign promises to boost the economy.

Pence said Trump will carry out his promised tax cuts and repeal President Barack Obama's health care law, while he speaking in Boone, Iowa, on Saturday.

He arrived riding a Harley-Davidson motorcycle and appeared at the rally to reassure Iowa Christian conservatives that the president was diligently working on these issues.

Pence also referenced Trump's controversial decision to pull out of the Paris climate deal, saying it's 'great to have a president who is more concerned with Des Moines than Denmark.'

Trump's decision on Thursday to quit the Paris climate agreement sparked furious worldwide criticism.

Pence backed the decision and said that remaining in the accord would have proved costly to U.S. economic growth and to the working-class Americans at the core of Trump's political base.

He said: 'By withdrawing from the Paris climate accord, President Donald Trump chose to put the forgotten men and women of America first. And he always will.'

Pence was in Iowa to buck up the influential Christian right in that state, although the vast majority of Iowa Republicans approve of the job Trump is doing.

However, some emerging Republican national prospects have accepted invitations from party leaders this year to visit Iowa, host of the leadoff presidential nominating caucuses.

President Donald Trump won Iowa by nine percentage points in 2016, after Obama carried the state in 2008 and 2012.

Retired nurse Kay Quirk says she's still waiting 'to see a conservative agenda put forward.'

She and other Iowa conservatives say they're bothered that Trump hasn't delivered on the promise to repeal Obama's health care law.

And Pastor Mike Demastus said Trump hasn't 'moved the needle one notch' on moral issues.

He's disappointed by the president's decision to keep U.S. Embassy in Israel in Tel Aviv, for now, rather than moving it to Jerusalem, as Trump promised during his 2016 campaign.

Pence also referenced the confirmation of Trump's nominee, Neil Gorsuch, to the Supreme Court and generated applause reviewing Trump's withdrawal from the Paris climate accord.

The vice president was at the rally for Senator Joni Ernst's summer 'Roast and Ride' fundraiser, and said: 'It is great to be back on a Harley.'

He then thanked Ernst for the 'motorcycle lesson.