John McCain Screws Up Healthcare Vote – But He Might Die!

Mitch is a big guy. Leave the big decisions to Big Guy Mitch.

I’m almost as bored of Obamacare Repeal Saga as I am of Russian KookQuest.

However, I am extremely interested in the possibility of John McCain’s death, at which point I will have a party and might do some kind of marathon livestream event with Azzmador.

Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell R-Ky announced Saturday that he was delaying consideration of health care legislation in light of Sen. John McCain’s absence from recent surgery. McConnell released a statement on Saturday night saying that he was deferring action on the measure as McCain recovers at his home in Arizona. “While John is recovering, the Senate will continue our work on legislative items and nominations, and will defer consideration of the Better Care Act,” McConnell said. Surgeons in Phoenix removed a blood clot from above McCain’s left eye on Friday. The 80-year-old Senate veteran was advised by doctors to remain in Arizona next week, his office said.

He could already be dead and his office is treating his death as an archaic Asian dynastic government would treat the death of the monarch.

I mean, I’m not saying that’s happening.

But it could be.

A procedural vote expected in the coming days had been cast as a showdown over the measure designed to replace Obamacare once and for all. With a 52-48 majority, Republicans can afford to only lose two votes. Vice President Mike Pence would break a tie for final passage. Two Republicans, Rand Paul of Kentucky and Susan Collins of Maine, have already said they’ll vote against the measure.

Rand the rebel. Screwing with the whole government in order to draw attention to himself.

I half-expect this guy to come out and claim he was sexually molested as a child. Or that he’s gay.

Anything to get attention, this guy.

Seriously, I don’t care what this bill is.

No one does, except the morbidly obese or otherwise chronically ill. Everyone else just wants to stop hearing about it.

And Rand actually wants to repeal entitlements. That is what his ostensible problem with the bill is. You can’t repeal entitlements, everyone knows that. We’re just trying to stop forcing people to pay private insurance companies for other people’s insurance in this wacky Ponzi Scheme.

Probably, it’s about time to just do single payer and be done with it in all honesty. And I’m not a communist. It’s just that at this point it would actually save money.

Only thing I care about is not hearing about it anymore.

I cared more about killing Common Core. Like six million times more, I cared about that. And that already happened completely, but the media didn’t even mention it.

I wasn’t buying healthcare anyway, I was just paying a $90 fine for not doing it because I’m totally healthy and only go to the dentist and just pay in cash. The whole concept of this gigantic healthcare industry is in itself insane.

This is current year. Virtually every old illness we used to deal with has been cured.

b) not born with a serious genetic condition, and

c) not working at some job where you have accidents all the time (such as a professional stuntman)

and you go to the doctor more than once a year (not including dentist every 6 months), you have a diet and/or exercise problem, period.

There is no legitimate reason for the existence of a healthcare industrial complex. The government should be spending this money on health education, and more closely regulating the food and drug industries.

I think John McCain is going to die. Or at least get so sick he has to resign.

I can feel it in my bones, in fact.

We need to run an Alt-Right candidate in the special election.

We probably won’t win. But we need to do it. Run as a Republican and talk a whole lot about everything that was wrong with McCain.

I’m willing to S-E-C-R-E-T-L-Y advise anyone in AZ who wants to do this.

The age limit is only 30, so I know we’ve got someone down to do this.

Do not worry. I’m not planning a Daily Stormer/GTKRWN platform. It’s going to be a Trumpist/Alt-Right platform that you’ll be able to get a job after running on.