Donald John Trump has been President of America for just over 100 days now. Last night on his 100th day in office, he spoke at a rally in Pennsylvania addressing thousands of his supporters. The rally was a snub to the White House Correspondents Dinner which the sitting President has traditionally attended.

It’s no secret that we have seen a steady diet of black pills from Trump. We had the cruise missile strike against Syria.  We had an endless barrage of tweets and videos where he talks about how great the Jews and Israel are. The Holohoax affirmation speech was especially painful to watch. There’s only so many black pills a man can take!

I think the criticism of Trump over these issues has been fair. The people did not elect his Jewish son in law or a bunch of neocon hacks to run the executive branch of government. The optics of these events have made it look like he’s been over run by the ZOG swamp.

Putting all that aside, his Pennsylvania speech made it feel like we had the old Trump back. The rhetoric was solid. He talked about getting rid of Obamacare, renegotiating NAFTA, building the wall, tax reform and executing on other issues that mirrored his promises. He criticized the fake news media and called out the Jew Senator Chuck Schumer for his terrible leadership skills.

He also did an interview on CBS’s Face the Nation today echoing some of the things he talked about in the speech.

The problem with all this is that we need to start seeing tangible results. If we don’t start seeing results, many of us are going to rightly assume that he’s operating in lock step with the ZOG swamp. Too many of us have watched this dog and pony show go on for years through Bush 41, Clinton, Bush 43 and Obama. The country needs immediate reforms otherwise America will look like Brazil within the next few decades.

We all know that democracy itself is a hoax. It is a system of government that allows Jewish parasites to control politicians from behind the scenes. If Trump doesn’t deliver on his promises it will represent proof to a large chunk of his base that these problems can’t be solved through the current electoral system. After all, if a man with Trump’s resources can’t change things than who could? It would ultimately prove that the system itself is so corrupt that it can’t be redeemed. This will cause a large portion of Trump’s base to be absorbed into our growing political movement. In many ways this has already been happening.

Obviously my expectations for Trump are low and it is hard to be optimistic considering what we saw over the past few weeks. Specifically, if the wall doesn’t get built that will be the end for most people. Same if World War 3 breaks out.

We’ll just have to see what happens. Who knows, maybe we’ll be surprised with what Trump does. Either way, it doesn’t matter. Trump has been a useful vehicle for us to push ahead our ideas. We just need to continue selling our ideas to his political base and over time they will eventually come to us. It is just a question of how fast this phenomenon will manifest itself.