This is not a real concern.

What putting this out in the media does is make people fear Russia. That is the point of it.

If they actually started giving out iodine tablets, that would further escalate the fears. Or at least that would be the intent. It might just make them look ridiculous.

I don’t know what the feeling is in Norway, but in America, we are definitely beginning to feel this Russia stuff is ridiculous. Even liberals are thinking that, and want to get back to talking about trannies and infinity brown people.

Norway is concerned that Russian nuclear submarines could endanger the health of the country’s residents, and is mulling whether it should distribute iodine tablets in preparation for a potential nuclear accident. Speaking to Norwegian broadcaster NRK, the section manager of the Norwegian Radiation Protection Authority (Statens strålevern, NRPA) cited an increase in nuclear activities near the country. “We have seen an increasing number of nuclear submarines off Norway’s coast – both visiting allies and Russian submarines patrolling off the coast all the way to Great Britain,” Astrid Liland said, as cited by the Local. The increase in nuclear submarines means an increased risk of potential nuclear accidents, according to nuclear authorities. “An accident of this kind with a nuclear-powered submarine could actually occur anywhere along our coast,” Liland told NRK. A press spokesman for the Norwegian military, Major Brynjar Stordal, specifically citedrisks from Russia’s “Dmitry Donskoy” submarine, the world’s largest, in a comment to NRK. The vessel is currently in waters near Norway after participating in a Navy Day event in late July. To prepare for potential Russian nuclear accidents, the Norwegian government has appointed a study group to analyze how iodine tablets can be made available to children and young adults in municipalities which would be most affected by a nuclear accident, as well as by pregnant and breastfeeding women. “…Iodine tablets can help prevent cancer of the thyroid gland in children and adolescents,” Eirik Rødseth Bakka, deputy director, of Norway’s Directorate of Health, told NRK. For such tablets to have any effect, they must be taken within hours of exposure to radioactive iodine.

Russians are not so incompetent as to accidentally blow-up one of their own nuclear subs.

No one thinks that.

It is an absurd assertion.