It’s no secret that Cluster Fox has been in a turmoil for the last little while. Ailes finally learned that there actually is a limit to institutional sleaze, Bill O’Reilly is now standing around on street corners, whistling and leering at the “babes”, they’re getting their ratings ass kicked by both MSNBC and CNN. It’s starting to look like the Trump administration over there.

But one solid bit of comfort at Fox, you can always count on a nice case of the warm-and-fuzzies where His Lowness is concerned. But, for the sake of his blood pressure, I hope Trump turned the channel once “Fox and Friends” was over, because it got kind of brutal later.

Fox and Friends was its usual warm, comforting mug of hot chocolate for Hair Furor’s tortured soul. As you can see from the reporting on the Daily Beast, they fell all over themselves backing up their hometown hero against that mean, old Comey;

The hosts of the right-wing gabfest said President Trump was right to feel “vindicated” by Comey’s statement and that Trump was in no way telling Comey to “stop the investigation” into his campaign’s Russia ties. Co-host Steve Doocy went so far as to argue that there was nothing wrong with Trump demanding “loyalty” from a supposedly independent FBI director. “Keep in mind Mr. Comey had been appointed FBI director by Barack Obama, and Barack Obama had a bunch of people who were trying to blow up Mr. Trump as he came into the presidency,” Doocy said, without citing evidence. “Also, if you're a CEO or a leader, that's what you want your team to be, a bunch of people who are loyal to the team.”

What more does a growing (sideways) boy need than that to get his blood moving in the morning? But what came after Comey’s testimony was more likely to get that moving blood boiling. Bret Baier and Chris Wallace handled the postmortem, and they were more like medical examiners than nurses of mercy. Bret Baier started the chuckles with;

But it turns out that Baiers troubled angst was just the appetizer at this shit buffet. Chris Wallace, the closest thing they have to a reputable journalist in that news dive bar over there was just waiting to lay some Joe Walsh licks on Da Prez. He noted that Trump’s lawyer would be happy that Comey had orally confirmed that Trump had not been under active investigation, but then he started playing the funeral dirge;

But “politically,” Wallace added, “I thought it was very damaging to the president.” “Repeatedly, James Comey called the president a liar, said that he lied about that the FBI was in disarray, that he defamed him and the FBI, said that the reason he kept those kinds of notes in the first place is that he thought this was the kind of man who would lie about those kinds of things,” he continued. “Not good stuff to have said on national television.”

Sweet Jeebus, what’s going on here??? A couple of golden oldies take their leave of the building, and all of a sudden honesty starts rearing its ugly head? What next, a sudden attack of integrity from El Rushbo? I sure hope not, his head would explode like that dude in “Scanners”.