Recently I wrote a diary bout the possibility that the first cracks of compromise might be appearing in the dam of obstruction. This was based on the number of GOP Senators, speaking after the Senate deathcare bill had just been pulled, who spoke in all earnestness, with no like poking you in the ribs with an elbow and winking, about working with Democrats to find a bipartisan solution. Y’all were so sweet to me in the comments, saying all of those nice things while they fitted me for my new sports jacket, the one with the size 86 sleeves. Very few people were buying what I was selling.

For all of you picky shoppers, who slammed the phone down in my ear (nicely of course), consider this a follow up call. Yes, I’m still at it, and I can explain it in one simple old phrase; “My enemy’s enemy is my friend”. What can I say, old guys know like a lot of old phrases and stuff. But let me explain.

I saw a nice little nugget of information yesterday that I don’t think many people caught. Five Senators, John McCain, Elizabeth Warren, Lindsey Graham, Sheldon Whitehouse, and David Perdue spent their Independence Day in Afghanistan, with our brave troops, talking about how we need to chart a new path to finally end this 16 year boondoggle. To be sure, there have been plenty of other examples of bipartisan camaraderie when it comes to our troops, but not normally in this large of a number.

Both McCain and Graham were public in their support for reaching across the aisle after McConnell pulled his test Little Big Horn from the floor last week. Gee, do you think at some points, when they weren’t snarfing down MRE’s with the guys and girls, or maybe on the long, boring flights over and back they may not have had a little chat about whether or not there was any kind of way for all of them to get their GOP asses out of the sling that The Orange Julius had put them into, and in doing so, to give the Democrats legislative achievement a reprieve?

I key on the Senate for one simple reason, over time it has proven to be the more measured, if not necessarily sensible body of the legislature. Six year terms make it easier for them to ride out the passing whims and fads of ever changing public opinion. Also, there is the smaller number, with only one hundred of them, it is easier, and often necessary to form relationships. There is not the numeric margin for partisan error that there is in the House, as both Republican obstruction for the last 8 years, and current Democratic obstruction are proving. And there’s the elevated opinion they have of themselves. They consider themselves the “adults” in the legislative room, there to put the brakes on the youthful exuberance of the House. If it starts, it will start in the Senate.

Now, for the “enemy of my enemy” stuff. Having put the time and years in to rise to their exalted position, most Senators have the experience to recognize a threat, most certainly one to themselves. And Trump is a threat, not a salvation. His wildly swinging, ever changing rhetoric and promises are making them look bad, they cannot possibly provide what he promises, especially since he promises polar opposites on the same subject at different times. But more alarmingly he is threatening the two things they hold dearest to their hearts, their stature, and their integrity.

Trump’s attacks on his own party, whether as a group, or even worse as individuals, are a direct threat to them. It invites a primary challenge for their seat, and it undermines their reputation with their constituents. And even if they survive their primary, with the additional expense involved, they are not out of the woods. His attacks on them give their Democratic challengers fodder for campaign speeches and ads. And while true to the cause Republican voters may not switch over to vote for a Democrat, they may well decide that their Senator or Representative isn’t worth their time and stay home, especially if the petulant two year isn’t on the ticket, which is as bad as voting for the other guy.

The GOP Senators can make all the public statements of defiance that they want about their town hall meetings and appearances being packed with Democrats for pressure and media reasons, but in their hearts they know better. If these healthcare proposals are truly the greatest thing since sliced bread, why aren’t more of their real constituents showing up to these town halls to express their support? And why aren’t more of them calling up and jamming the switchboard to their office, telling them what a great job they’re doing, and to vote for the bill? And with Trump’s popularity mired in the mid 30’s, there is the growing realization that Trump's base may not be as critical as their base. With Democrats over performing by 15-20+ points in deep red districts in the special elections, the math can speak for itself.

Don’t kid yourself, Ditch McConnell can read these tea leaves better than I can. He had no choice but to go through this legislative Kabuki for appearances sake, but he knows a dog with fleas when he sees it, although I don’t think he expected quite as much resistance as he has gotten from his caucus, I think he thought they would fall in line and take the it like the House did. One lone GOP Senator won’t be enough to do it, but if he gets 4-5 Senators insisting on bipartisanship, enough to sink anything else he might try, and especially if they have the framework for a bill worked on with Democrats, McConnell may have to drop the pretense and go along.

Which brings us to the House. This may not be as one sided as it seems. The GOP House bit the bullet and backed Ryan on his health plan, and they fell into the shithouse for it, they’re being stretched on the rack at home with their constituents, and for what? Their plan was DOA in the Senate, and the Senates version of their bill went down in flames. If the Senate passes a sane compromise bill, it’s up to Ryan to be the one with the fire hose, ready to clean them off and bring it to the floor for a vote. And if the Democrats are on board with it, it would only take the 25 House members running in districts that Hillary won to bring it over the finish line. A stretch? Yes, of course, but by no means impossible.

Forget about Trump, he just wants a win. Any win. The thought of being able to claim that he saved the people from the horrors of Obamacare will send him running to the Oval Office bathroom to change his Depends. Forget the fact that in reality it’s just Obamacare, running the way it could have 7 years ago if the GOP hadn’t been such pricks in the first place, to his simple, twisted mind, he’d be the best thing since Reagan.

Is this nothing but rank speculation? Of course it is, in spades! But in the rural-America-traveling carnival-fun-house we now find ourselves in, who’s to say that the mirror won’t warp that way? The Republicans had seven long years to meticulously craft a work of conservative art of a health bill, down to the last semi colon, so that the breathing colon in the White House cold sign it. But they pissed it away, and now they own healthcare, and they’re either going to have to fix it, or pay the price for it. What would you choose?