Make no mistake the death of purported Times Square car attack victim Alyssa Ellsman is a total fake, no other possibility. This becomes obvious from the available imagery where, clearly, no one is wounded or injured. Her real death would mean that only she alone was harmed, as, clearly, all the others that are seen alive on the street or sidewalks are faking their wounds.

With regard to her images there is plenty of evidence of digital manipulation, for instance, the above image. Notice how shiny is the necklace: and how clear it is compared to the background imagery. It is as if that necklace was placed there, digitally.

Then, there is this supercilious imagery of her purported graduation, similar to the kind of imagery provided in other hoaxes and scams. It appears that here, too, there is great manipulation of the photograph, with Ellsman being, once again, seemingly installed artificially into the image:

Her image is considerably softer than those of the other two women. Too, there appears to be a cut line between the fake dead woman and the one next to her, following her left shoulder. It does seem odd how she is so poorly defined and the floral in the foreground is more distinct.

In the following image there is great distortion. Obviously, this is fake, with both these women being artificially installed into the stock background, an absolute fake: no doubt about it.

It can be clearly seen that this is a totally falsified image, corrupt to the extreme, through this screen capture and enlargement:

There is no way this is a legitimate image. There are, rather, PhotoShop blur tool marks and cut lines abounding. Regardless, why would anyone upload such an image of a legitimate picture of the deceased and/or her relatives? The fact is this woman doesn’t even have a chin, the background bleeding directly through it.

This, too, is an example of a heavily digitally altered image. Once again, this is not an actual picture but, rather, one where the image has been installed artificially into the background:

It’s ultra-soft, so much so that the physical features are indistinguishable, in fact, the foreground is no sharper than the background, which is impossible per the appropriate focus of the lens.

Yet, she’s dead, right? The media says so. So do local NYC officials. The following image was provided as proof of her demise, where it was stated that she was directly run over by the vehicle in-question:

No one can tell anything from this image, although the tennis shoe in the background is standard in staged hoaxes, especially those of the arch-Masonic style.

Then, the following image surfaced, which is ultra-revealing. It states, categorically, that this is an image of the deceased, the same one as above without the censuring. It’s a “woman’s body,” it says so in-print; plus, a police officer is keeping “vigil.” It must be true, yet is it? That is, how is this to any degree a deceased person?



 It says its her, but this is obviously a lie. That isn’t a person who has been run over by a car. Moreover, there are no wounds of any kind to indicate this in the least. Instead, there is merely the following, mere moulage – charcoal, food coloring, and the like:

It’s hard proof of the lie and fraud. That’s charcoal, absolutely, applied on. It’s a Hollywood set at-best, not a real deadly, traumatic attack.

That includes images such as the following, which are also obviously part of the movie set. Using stunt men the criminal minds behind this did give it an element of realism, although not by much. That’s because despite all the tossed about bodies no one was injured, not even any scratches or abrasions.

Here is the death image, once again, in clear HD-style photography. What this proves, absolutely, is that this is fake to the extreme and that the death was staged, all through the use of paid crisis actors and Hollywood-style moulage moles. Everyone can see that this is charcoal and not real tire tread marks or real blunt trauma from a fast-moving vehicle.

Here, too, the image is soft and indistinct versus the background. Big brown-eyes is alive and well, but where she is located, God only knows.

The world is a stage, but there are real massacres. That’s done by the Great Satan, the US government, on behalf of its Zionist masters. Simultaneously, these criminal elements play games, making the false appear real, distracting people from the real horrors of this world: the crimes committed by the arch-Zionist mob.

It also means that all who claim otherwise, who say that this attack was real and who claim that it really was a horrific event, where people were injured or killed, are lying.