The Rev. Al Sharpton said on Saturday that President Trump’s crude call for NFL owners to fire protesting players completely misses the point of why they’re taking a knee in the first place.

“Why don’t you, as President, address what the protest is about? Why?” Sharpton asked as he addressed a cheering crowd during his weekly rally at his National Action Network headquarters in Harlem.

“The reason you won’t is because they’re protesting the criminal justice inequities in this country,” a fired up Sharpton said to roaring applause.

“He’s talking about ‘fire’ like he’s still doing 'The Apprentice,'” he added.

Trump, during a political rally in Alabama on Friday night, pushed league owners to cut players who kneel during the national anthem, telling them to “get that son of a b---- off the field right now.”

He also encouraged fans to consider walking out in protest “when somebody disrespects our flag.”

Several football players have chosen to kneel or sit during “The Star-Spangled Banner” to protest the treatment of black people by police.

Trump takes veiled shot at ‘son of a b----’ Kaepernick in speech

Quarterback Colin Kaepernick started the trend last year while playing for the San Francisco 49ers.

“That’s a total disrespect of our heritage. That’s a total disrespect of everything that we stand for,” Trump said on Friday.

Sharpton vehemently disagreed, and took exception with Trump’s salty language.

“To call them SOBs and not address the policies shows you the kind of political cowardice and rhetorical distraction that you’re trying to play on the public,” he said.

Trump’s attack on those protesting the national anthem led to fierce backlash from across the wide world of sports and elsewhere. In July, Trump, who has received millions of dollars in donations from NFL owners, took credit for Kaepernick not being signed by a team this season.

Sharpton applauded the protesters, calling them brave and committed.

“When some black boys would risk their contracts of millions of dollars to stand up for their brothers and sisters that have been incarcerated, that have been killed, and they showed the kind of integrity and commitment that you never show, you gonna cuss out their mamas?” he said.