President Donald Trump, who owes some of his fame to saying “You’re fired” to a number of people on The Apprentice, may have ‘fired’, or at least cut out of the loop, House Speaker Paul Ryan.

This exclusion is noteworthy because of how heavily the President seemed to have relied upon Ryan’s guidance on the American Health Care Act [AHCA]. The AHCA was pulled before a vote, after failing to impress enough House Republicans, and is now referred to derisively by some as Ryancare.

Breitbart adds that much of the reason why Ryan is not being given a role similar to the role he had with the AHCA push is that he and Trump may be too far apart on tax reform:

Trump’s corporate and individual tax reforms are significant, but no way near the revolutionary changes contained in Ryan’s Border Adjustment Tax, which shifts $1 trillion in annual tax burden onto exported goods and exporters. That fight has already been going on behind the scenes, as domestic manufacturers and retailers line up allies and resources as they contest for who will be on the hook for one-third of the federal government’s annual revenues.

Ryan’s Border Adjustment Tax [BAT], which would levy a 20 percent tax on all goods and services imported into the U.S., is very unpopular on the right side of the aisle.

Both Kudlow and Moore said the border adjustment tax drafted by Ryan, which would whack retailers and other import-reliant industries, is a poison pill. One administration official told POLITICO that it’s already out of favor in the West Wing, while another said it would be premature to discount it yet. “Bury the border adjustment tax,” Kudlow said. “Just bury it. Build a crypt and a nice grave and bury it.” The border adjustment provision also has few fans among Senate Republicans. Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) recently said Ryan’s proposal couldn’t get 10 votes in the upper chamber.

Trump’s tax reform plans may find fewer fans among Senate Republicans than expected as well, even without Ryan’s BAT.

So far, according to Politico, Trump’s plan includes an Ivanka Trump-inspired proposal for a child care tax credit, which may cost an estimated $500 billion over a decade, according to the Tax Foundation.

The plan also does not include a capital gains tax cut. Conservatives such as those in the Heritage argue “Cutting capital gains tax rates is the single best tax policy to improve economic growth.”