Secretary of State Rex Tillerson on Wednesday pushed back on a report claiming that he threatened to quit and called President Donald Trump a “moron” over the summer, and held an unscheduled press conference to praise his boss and affirm his “commitment to the president and the success of our country.”

When asked about the incident on Wednesday, Tillerson did not directly deny that it had occurred, saying: “I’m not going to deal with petty stuff like that.”

Tillerson also reportedly threatened not to return to Washington in July, according to NBC. He was in his home state of Texas for his son’s wedding when Trump delivered a widely condemned, highly politicized speech to the Boy Scouts of America. Tillerson was formerly the organization’s national president.

White House chief of staff John Kelly and Defense Secretary James Mattis apparently stepped in to “beg him to stay,” according to the report. Nauert said at the time that Tillerson was merely “taking a little time off.”

Vice President Mike Pence also got involved, officials added, offering Tillerson a “pep talk” over breakfast and encouraging him to find ways to smooth over the relationship with Trump. He suggested that Tillerson adopt a more conciliatory approach in public settings, and save his differences for private meetings.

A spokesman for Pence called the reporting “categorically false,” denying that Pence urged Tillerson not to resign — though NBC’s reporting only suggested that Pence intervened to tamp down on tensions between Tillerson and Trump.

“The Vice President values the service of the Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and is grateful for his strong affirmation of President Trump’s America First foreign policy agenda,” Pence’s communications director Jarrod Agen said in a statement. “The Vice President can also confirm that, as the Secretary of State made clear, at no time did he and the Secretary ever discuss the prospect of the Secretary’s resignation from the administration.”

MSNBC’s Stephanie Ruhle, one of the reporters who worked on the story, also the reporting and apparently suggested that Tillerson went even further.

“As we’ve said many times before, if the president doesn’t have confidence in somebody, they will no longer be in their position,” she told reporters on Air Force One.

Speculation has swirled for months about how long Tillerson will remain secretary of state. The former Exxon Mobil CEO said he didn’t want the job, but his wife told him it was something he had to do.

Trump has publicly contradicted Tillerson’s statements about U.S. foreign policy on several occasions. Tillerson traveled regularly to the Middle East to mediate following the Gulf states’ blockade on Qatar. On the day that he called for easing the blockade, Trump made a speech arguing that it was “hard but necessary” and lambasted Qatar ― one of America’s key Middle Eastern allies ― for funding terrorism.

Tillerson is also reportedly working behind the scenes to salvage the Iran nuclear deal, an agreement Trump has condemned as “one of the worst and most one-sided transactions the United States has ever entered into.”

“The president said he is open to finding those conditions where we can remain engaged with others on what we all agree is still a challenging issue,” Tillerson said in September. National Security Adviser H.R. McMaster echoed this, adding that the U.S. could possibly re-enter the Paris accord if a “better deal” comes together.