The weeks dragged on. They applied for passports, waiting impatiently for them to arrive by mail. Moe wondered whether they’d be assigned a city or could pick one. She wanted to be a medic. He yearned to be a fighter. They asked questions about religion classes and wondered if they would be tested on their knowledge of Islam. She was nervous about traveling, she allegedly told her recruiter—she had never been outside the United States. He asked about basic training and whether ISIS follows Islamic law. “I am not familiar with sharia,” he allegedly told the recruiter. “I am excited about coming … but I feel I won’t know what all I will be doing.” Finally, it was time to leave. They used her mom’s credit card to buy tickets on Delta, with a connection in Amsterdam. She carried $367.50, more than enough for a taxi or train to the famous Blue Mosque in Istanbul, where they planned to meet their recruiter. They would stand out, she wrote, because of her “big bushy curly hair,” but she asked the recruiter to bring a head scarf for her to wear during the rest of their journey; she was ashamed to go uncovered but scared to wear a hijab while traveling for fear of drawing attention to herself. Early on a Saturday morning, they drove about half an hour to Columbus, Mississippi, expecting little security trouble at their small regional airport as they departed for their new life. They were arrested while preparing to board their flight. Jaelyn and Moe weren’t actually talking to ISIS recruiters. Their contacts had been undercover FBI employees the whole time.

The most remarkable thing about Jaelyn and Moe is that theirs was a largely straightforward case. ISIS sympathizers pose a terrifying dilemma for law-enforcement officials, who have to sift through droves of online aliases engaged with propaganda—whose owners might live in America or abroad—to identify people who credibly wish to harm the United States. The accounts may not be accessible because of encryption, the FBI agents working the Mississippi case told me, and leads can go dark. Americans expect their government to prevent violence before it happens: Their shared national nightmare is the plot that goes undiscovered before an attack or the known sympathizer who gets away. Faced with such high stakes and uncertainty, the FBI is left to teeter between catching people before they act and walking along with them until they violate the law. The most remarkable thing about Jaelyn and Moe is that theirs was a largely straightforward case. In less than three months, the FBI had crafted a powerful indictment against them. Theoretically, when the Bureau comes across two kids like Jaelyn and Moe—lost, in love, and grasping toward a dark future—agents could try to set them on another path, reaching out to their families and communities. In reality, though, that’s not what the country has asked them to do. Jaelyn was good at everything in high school. Yearbook photos show her in cheerleading, robotics, and a competitive singing group; she was nerdy enough to join the National Honor Society and Mu Alpha Theta, the math club, but cool enough to be on the homecoming court twice. The “jolliest junior” of Vicksburg’s Warren Central High School was widely liked and friends with everyone from the band kids to the choir kids to the “redneck country kids,” said her classmate Katie Martin.

From the beginning, Moe and Jaelyn were isolated. Moe’s friends disapproved of the way the two got together and became less eager to hang out. Friends say Moe had to ask Jaelyn’s permission to go out and see people, and she would get mad when he stayed out late without telling her. When the couple would hang out with Moe’s brother, Abdullah, “They would be to themselves, sitting in a corner,” said Jonathan Dobbs, one of Abdullah’s close friends. “Moe would be on his laptop playing games. ” Meanwhile, Jaelyn started getting interested in Islam. During her sentencing hearing, Jaelyn claimed Moe introduced her to the religion, although prosecutors alleged elsewhere that she had been interested in converting before they started dating. She said the shahada—the Muslim profession of faith—around March 2015, at Moe’s parents’ house. He taught her what he knew: how to pray, how to recite the Koran in Arabic. She traded shorts and tank tops for modest skirts and dresses. She started covering her head, first with cloth in rich purple and green, and later, only in black. Moe was happy she had converted to Islam, he told friends. Oda also really wanted him to marry a Muslim. When Jaelyn converted, Oda told me, he cried with joy. Despite their apparent happiness, Jaelyn and Moe each felt under pressure. She was working in a chemistry lab and planning to take the MCAT. “Mom, I just don’t think I can do it,” Jaelyn said during a phone call one night with Benita. “It’s too much.” She had been anxious, she testified in court, and often contemplated suicide. Benita, thinking she was just going through a normal college experience, didn’t have a lot of sympathy. “Tough up, Jaelyn,” she thought.

Meanwhile, Moe felt lost. He was about to graduate and had the option of getting a master’s in psychology at Mississippi State. But he didn’t really want to pursue it. Friends observed that Moe gained weight and appeared tired and depressed. Moe told me he felt “guilty for making mistakes” in his love life—“no more letting someone run my life by telling what’s right and wrong,” he said. He asked family for advice on how to make Jaelyn happy and keep the relationship going. “It was all a bit fishy, and Abdullah and many of the other brothers at the masjid,” or mosque, “knew it.” Many were surprised when they married in early June of 2015. Oda had been hoping to pick Moe’s bride himself, dreaming of someone tall—while he thought Jaelyn was too short for Moe, he told me, he eventually let up and consented to the match. Members of the Starkville Muslim community were invited to their nikah at Oda’s house, but many declined. “It was all a bit fishy, and Abdullah and many of the other brothers at the masjid,” or mosque, “knew it,” said Dobbs. Most folks in the community didn’t know who Jaelyn was: She had rarely attended Muslim Student Association events at school, let alone prayers at the mosque. “There was no contract, no clergy, no agreement of witnesses,” Dobbs said. “We were told the day of and that it would be a potluck dinner.” But the couple’s closest friends and family didn’t understand what was really going on in their relationship: Over the course of roughly three months, they had slowly become fascinated by ISIS. That spring—it’s not clear exactly when or why—Jaelyn started watching videos featuring Anjem Choudary, the British extremist imprisoned in 2016 for swearing an oath of allegiance to the Islamic State. Friends say she started asking questions about Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, the leader of ISIS, and circulated an article claiming Muslims were supposed to pledge allegiance to the caliphate. She downloaded at least one issue of Dabiq, ISIS's online propaganda magazine. Moe joined in: He allegedly downloaded the organization’s guide to making the trip overseas and started watching the videos with Jaelyn. In one clip the couple viewed, ISIS threw a man, presumed to be gay, from the roof of a building.

As innocent and maternal as that may sound, it may also reveal the extent of her commitment: ISIS propaganda has featured children executing prisoners in the style of a video game, and refers to boys groomed to be fighters as “cubs.” There were signs that Jaelyn understood the horrific violence of the group she longed to join. After a sailor and four Marines were murdered in July in Chattanooga, Tennessee, she celebrated. Praise be to God, she said, “the numbers of supporters are growing.” In fact, the pair seemed frustrated about the way ISIS was portrayed in the United States, including stories about ISIS taking sex slaves. “I cannot wait to get to Dawlah so I can be amongst my brothers and sisters under the protection of Allah,” Jaelyn allegedly said. Moe said he wanted to be a mujahid, or soldier engaged in jihad. “I am willing to fight,” he allegedly wrote. “I want to be taught what it really means to have a heart in battle!” In letters written to their families before they left, Jaelyn and Moe didn’t mention anything about ISIS, distrust of American media, or elation about the slaughter of Marines. Instead, they talked about hopelessness. “It was all my planning ... I am guilty of what you soon will find out.” “I feel I was not going to make anything life changing in the future,” Moe wrote to his parents. “Making changes here in America feels pointless to me as people in my [academic] field hate change.” He never signed his offer letter from MSU’s grad program, he said: “I did not want you to be responsible for any financial debt after I had left.” He drew a little heart next to his signature, scrawled in sideways, boyish letters.

As the FBI talked to Jaelyn and Moe, they would have been looking for a few specific signs of action, Hughes said. “Assume for a second [Jaelyn] doesn’t get to the airport or doesn’t buy the tickets. Then, the FBI is in a bit of a predicament about what to do next,” he said. “What tripped her up was the overt act of trying to travel.” Many ISIS-related cases in the United States involve people who want to go overseas and only get as far as the airport. But some don’t even manage that: They are arrested for facilitating others’ travel or simply purchasing a plane ticket. The Youngs and the Dakhlallas first realized their children were in serious trouble when the FBI came knocking. Oda thought the agents were “pulling my foot,” he said. He had been asleep, and Lisa was at the local farmer’s market. He went to the door groggy, but brightened when he saw who it was: He had befriended a handful of FBI agents over the years, and he and his wife cooked for a couple of these men often enough that they would request certain lamb dishes. “I’m glad you are here, man! Come on!” he said. But the officers had only come as a courtesy to break the news of the case: “Oda, we are on an official visit,” they replied. Oda eventually came to feel that it “was nice of them [to] come along with these FBI agents that I did not know,” he told me. But initially, he felt betrayed. Three hours west in Vicksburg, agents paid the Youngs a similar visit. “They came here for 35, 40 minutes, told us she was being charged with conspiring to be a medic or something, and they left,” Leonce told me. He claims he didn’t get any help from the Navy or the Vicksburg police department, where he works: “They don’t care,” he said.

When Jaelyn’s lawyer brought the letters to a meeting with her in prison, proving Moe had betrayed her, Jaelyn broke down, Sweet said in court. She pled guilty roughly three weeks after Moe. The undercover FBI employees in Mississippi didn’t just sit by and watch as the couple’s planning escalated. They answered questions as the couple developed their scheme, providing details about travel, logistics, and what ISIS is like. “They expressed an interest to go,” said Freeze. “We provided some basic options, and then they responded.” The undercover agents gave Jaelyn and Moe several chances to back away from their plan, he said, and yet the couple kept going. “I don’t think we overstepped, and the courts didn’t see it that way either.” A non-lawyer might see this as a form of entrapment, but legally speaking, it’s not, just as Freeze pointed out. To argue entrapment, a defense attorney would not only have to prove that Jaelyn and Moe never would have gone without the FBI’s encouragement—he would also have to show they had no predisposition to travel overseas. Terrorism suspects who consciously agree to commit criminal acts, no matter how theoretical, tend not to win in court with these claims. “Entrapment is just a high bar generally, and it’s particularly high in terrorism cases,” said Karen Greenberg, the director of Fordham Law School’s Center on National Security. In all likelihood, Jaelyn and Moe both fared better by pleading guilty than they would have if they’d gone to trial, where the government almost always wins. “If you do go to trial, the penalty is immense,” said Greenberg. Of all the sentences that have been given out in ISIS cases to date, the lowest involved a defendant who cooperated with prosecutors. The highest was awarded to someone who went to trial.

The frequent guilty pleas mean the public rarely gets a close look at the FBI’s methods. Not going to trial means key details about the FBI’s operations never come out, because the findings from the discovery phase are never released. In Jaelyn and Moe’s case, this might have included a fuller transcript of their exchanges with the FBI. “There’s still a lot you won’t find out because the government will say it’s classified,” said Greenberg. “But there’s an awful lot that does come out. And one of the things that can get litigated in open court is the role of the FBI.” “With me gone, it took a toll on my daughter … Today is my day with my child.” At the last minute, Jaelyn’s lawyer introduced her mental health as a new factor in the case. Roughly two weeks before Jaelyn was sentenced in August 2016, Sweet submitted a 30-page report, paid for by Jaelyn’s parents, that suggested there was reason for concern about her mental state at the time of her decision to join ISIS. “She was in trouble, hurting herself physically,” said Sweet at the hearing. “She was in trouble, with her grades dropping, isolation, and other things.” Leonce also tried to take the blame for Jaelyn’s actions. “With me gone, it took a toll on my daughter,” he said. “She was lost. … I’m sure there are other servicemen that might not be in a federal court with their kids, but it [causes] a problem. … Today is my day with my child.” At a previous hearing, when Leonce heard that Jaelyn had celebrated the deaths of servicemen in Chattanooga, FBI Special Agent Stephen Thomason told me, he “broke down crying.” Clay Joyner, the lead prosecutor, dismissed the claims about Jaelyn’s mental health, noting that the psychiatrist’s report found Jaelyn had “a lifelong pattern of manipulation and lying.” Many of her problems were typical of American college students, Joyner argued: “depression, the issues regarding adolescent brain development, sometimes the absence of a parent, a strict mother.” Another prosecutor, Robert H. Norman, pushed back on Leonce’s plea for leniency. “We also have to face the fact that most ... people” who leave their kids behind to serve overseas “don’t end up in a courtroom with a child charged with betraying her country and wanting to join an organization such as ISIS,” he said. Young people in America have a rich tradition of feeling lost and trying to find themselves. Some have escaped to the solitude of the Alaskan wilderness, taken up heroin, or plunged into the seedy depths of Reddit. Jaelyn and Moe, however, managed to self-destruct in a way that’s both politically charged and morally horrifying. Grasping blindly at their futures, they scratched the country’s most pressing anxiety: what to do about the fear that we will never, ever be safe. There may have been another path for Jaelyn and Moe. When the government or its partners identify ISIS sympathizers online, especially people without criminal backgrounds like these two, they could intervene and deter crimes from committed. This is the approach that “has risen to the top of the heap of counterterrorism issues domestically right now,” Greenberg said: what’s known in the counterterrorism world as “off-ramps.” In Europe, where countries have greater problems with fighters returning from battlefields in Syria and Iraq compared with the United States, programs vary. The governments of the U.K., the Netherlands, and France have set up hotlines where friends and families can call in to report suspicious behavior. Other programs involve a mentor—someone involved in their mosque, for example, or a mental-health professional—who steps in and takes the would-be ISIS sympathizer under his wing. They might read articles together and critique propaganda found online. The goal is to divert the ISIS sympathizers, who are often young, from taking action. While there are several models being tested in the United States, including a nascent program in Minnesota featured in Wired in January, “none has really taken hold … as the answer,” Greenberg said. The legality of such programs is complicated: How could investigators share information about suspects gleaned through classified FISA investigations? What would happen to community partners if one of their mentees decided to blow up a mall? The current political climate presents still more challenges to off-ramp-style programs. Community groups in Michigan and Minnesota have recently rejected grants from the federal government to work on countering extremism, citing the Trump administration’s antagonism of the American Muslim community. Recruiting community partners might become increasingly difficult for an administration that campaigned on the promise to fight, not deter, “radical Islamic extremism.” For its part, the FBI sees Jaelyn and Moe’s case as a lesson about the intensity of the ISIS threat. “This just goes to show that ISIS can reach into small-town America, in Starkville, Mississippi,” said Thomason. “They can reach out on social media and engage two students from very middle-class families.” The worlds they left behind in Starkville and Vicksburg have lurched on. The spring after Moe was arrested, his mother, Lisa, died of non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma. Then, last December, another member of the Dakhlalla family died: Taqwa, the 2-year-old daughter of Moe’s older brother Abdullah, suffocated in her sleep when a heater malfunctioned in her bedroom. She was just old enough to have met her young uncle before he was arrested. Oda now lives alone in the little house on Herbert Street, once filled with his wife and children and grandchild. When I visited in January, Jaelyn’s clothes and backpack were still there, stuffed in a trash bag on the back porch; Oda said she had her things mailed to him and Lisa after she was arrested, rather than sending her possessions back home. Oda had trouble sleeping and cried often in the months after Moe’s arrest, he told me. He talks about Islam with an almost numerological obsession, and spends hours on the phone with an imam friend who lives a few hours north. He spent a long time searching for a solution to his son’s situation—he wrote to President Obama, and considered reaching out to former U.S. Senator Trent Lott, whose son, Chet, he said he once tutored. Now, he is resigned. “We live in this life according to the plan of God,” he told me. But “I feel … there [are] traps everywhere.” Moe tutors fellow inmates in English and math at his prison home in Jesup, Georgia. He exercises a lot and reads sci-fi, and he’s thinking about learning a trade—maybe air-conditioning repair, or electrical work. One thing he appreciates about prison, he told me, is practicing Islam. Instead of watching videos alone in a campus apartment with his girlfriend, or memorizing verses under the watchful eye of his father, he feels he has a community. “I meet about 10-15 Sunni Muslims here on a weekly basis,” he told me in a letter. “The first big lesson I learned from my Muslim brothers is that my knowledge about faith is at an all time low. Just reading about the basics of Islam and the oneness of God is a big change compared to listening to it from my parents and community that I grew up in.” A few months into our correspondence, he started signing off as Muhammad, rather than Moe—the “beautiful Islamic name” Oda was so proud to have given his youngest son. Vicksburg is mostly silent about Jaelyn. The Army Corps of Engineers sustains the town economically, meaning many of Jaelyn’s closest friends and mentors are afraid they’ll lose their jobs if they talk about the girl they once knew who was convicted of terrorism charges. There’s “this undercurrent—and it’s not just among my work friends—that anything positive you say about Jaelyn could label you as an ISIS sympathizer or something like that,” wrote Will Ballard, her robotics teammate, in an email. “After her arrest ... Well, it was like she had died, practically. … She committed a crime and is paying the price for it, but I don’t think she deserves to be entirely forgotten.” Kaylin Young’s senior year at Warren Central High School started just days after her sister was arrested. Jaelyn refused to see her until February 2016, after spending six months in jail: “I just couldn’t—I can’t handle it,” she told the court. But Kaylin got through, winning a small college scholarship from a local Vicksburg club. The Youngs proudly placed a “Southern Miss Class of 2020” sign on their front lawn. Benita, whom Jaelyn closely resembles, told me her daughter is planning to share her story once she’s reunited with her family—as of now, that won’t be until 2026. Although Jaelyn said during her sentencing that she hoped for a platform to tell others about “the decision that led me here” and dissuade “those who are considering the same path,” she is not speaking with the press. “My daughter ... just wants to do her time and be left alone,” Leonce told me. “She don’t want to talk to no news media. They already painted a picture for her.” Leonce has a plan for his daughter. “When I retire ... I’m going to get a house out there in the country,” he told me. “I’m going to go [into town] and get what I’ve got to get for the month, and go back home, and we’re just going to live our days.” Jaelyn’s incarceration is “a hard pill to swallow, but after you swallow the pill, you realize that your child is still alive, and to hell with the rest of it,” he said. “All this is God’s work.” In an alternate world—one where Jaelyn and Moe had really been talking to ISIS recruiters, and actually made their way to Syria, and truly joined the Islamic State—the young pair might have gotten involved in violence. They might very well be dead by now: The FBI theoretically made them safer by apprehending them, and Moe and Jaelyn have both said they’re glad they were not successful in their attempt to run away. But it’s also impossible to know what the world would look like had the FBI not intervened. Perhaps Jaelyn and Moe would have found a real recruiter and made their journey. Perhaps they would have abandoned the idea—a passing, absurd notion born of unhappiness and anxiety, corrected with time and space and the natural force of inertia. Or perhaps they could have been found by Muslim community members who wanted to help, not prosecute, them. Maybe they’d still be together, somewhere in Mississippi, learning about Islam and and figuring out where they belong.