KELLYANNE CONWAY: The man who works behind me here, President Trump, he's at his desk, pen in hand, ready to sign into law repeal and replacing Obamacare. He hasn't given up on that because he knows 29 million Americans don't have health insurance. He knows that Obamacare made many of their situations worse for many of them who were lied to about keeping their plans and doctors. They are without care. He stands ready to do fundamental tax reform, and he went yesterday, before Congress even gets back into session from their very long vacation where they got an earful from constituents for not getting things done. He's ready.

BRIAN KILMEADE (CO-HOST): Yeah, I have no idea why they keep going on vacation. It is just, it's criminal. They have to work for a living.

CONWAY: It's good work if you can get it.

KILMEADE: This is basically -- what the president's doing, a lot of people wanted him to do for health care, absent [House Majority Leader] Mitch McConnell [(R-KY)]. He's going to go outline his plan, and he's going to reportedly be active in doing it. And he gave some basics. He said I'm going to have three income tax brackets instead of seven. I'm going to look to get a 15 percent corporate tax cut, I'm going to repeal the estate tax, no alternative minimum tax. Having said that, I'm thinking, OK, that's a good framework, I wonder how it's going to be hashed out, details to come. It didn't stop [House Minority Leader] Nancy Pelosi [(D-CA)] from coming out immediately and said, "Instead of offering the American people a plan for real job-creating tax reform, President Trump is pushing billionaires-first trickle-down tax scheme that hands out massive tax cuts to the wealthiest, at the expensive of American families." I sense she is against something she doesn't even been presented with yet. I mean, that is just the wrong attitude. That's the anti what we're seeing in Texas. Do you think there might be on some level a fear among Democrats that if tax reform is passed for America, the economy will grow at such a rate it will be impossible for them to win an election?

CONWAY: You hit it correctly. That's what I see. And this is what happened in the past when Ronald Reagan gave us fundamental tax reform. He was more popular and helped his vice president get a third term, get his third term, frankly. But what is Nancy Pelosi's plan? She's talking about Donald Trump's plan for tax reform. What is her plan?