It was truly a scene at that time, often set to music by Robert John Burck, a. k. a. the Naked Cowboy, a fervent supporter of Mr. Trump. Mr. Burck and I have chatted at the Trump Grill in the lobby, where he sits in his spangled underwear taking a cocktail break with his wife, Patricia Cruz, who immigrated to America illegally from Mexico and is also a Trump supporter.

Some of the building’s upstairs spaces are open to the public, too, part of a public-private open space agreement Mr. Trump made with the city that designates the upper-floor terraces as public parks. They are grim, slate-colored spaces. At times protesters have assembled in them to mock Mr. Trump on his own home turf.

But there are a fair share of Trump fans in the lobby and on the lower levels, ordering dishes like Trump’s Mother’s Meatloaf in the food court and buying up “Make America Great” hats and bars of fake gold bullion. A clerk at an official shop there once told me “everything is made in America,” which was inaccurate: Turning over cuff links and ties revealed they bore tags from places like Lesotho, China and Mexico.

In New York City, it is easy to find people who did not vote for Mr. Trump. For a balance of perspectives in my stories about Mr. Trump and the city, the lobby is a fertile place to find the people who support him. They typically are visitors from out of town wandering past the fountain that sheets down a wall and taking selfies.

Sometimes his supporters are reluctant to speak to me, affected by the president’s diatribes that falsely accuse reporters across the board of pushing an anti-Trump agenda. To break the ice with people who express that opinion, I sometimes introduce myself as a “fake news reporter,” which gets a laugh. The way to get skeptical people to speak to me in the lobby is the same way reporters get people to speak to us always — with the truth. Here is your opportunity to express your perspective, I say; why not use it?

On the street, when Mr. Trump is not in town, things are considerably calmer than they were last year after the election. It’s been a while since I’ve seen the men who sell pins of Mr. Trump shaped like a pile of dog droppings — one of whom wears a plush hat in the same shape — or the man who sells books lampooning President Barack H. Obama as a Doctor Seuss character.

Business is almost back to normal at the restaurants on 56th Street by the tower. They suffered huge losses after Nov. 8 when police checkpoints blocked the streets for a time. I take the temperature of the economic climate there with frequent check-ins at Il Tinello, an Italian restaurant. The owner, John Goci, an immigrant who says he finds Mr. Trump’s policies offensive, lost 30 percent of his business because of the road closures in the months after the election. Mr. Goci is like a man who has gone through all the stages of grief: When we first met he was initially infuriated at his neighbor, then distraught. These days, when I call up, he sighs with resignation.

That all could change with Mr. Trump back in town. My inbox is full of messages from anti-Trump groups notifying me that they have a rally scheduled or a protest march in the works. They could be big. At one rally before Inauguration Day, Cher showed up, and I was more than a little star-struck.

Mostly, covering Mr. Trump and the city is about regular people navigating an unusual presidency. He may not be here much, but Mr. Trump and his tower, I have found, cast a very long shadow across the City of New York.