A challenge to the new restrictions, Mr. Francisco wrote, “must proceed on its own terms and in the district court in the first instance.”

The American Civil Liberties Union has already challenged the latest order in a pending case in a federal court in Maryland. The addition of two countries that are not majority Muslim, the group said, did not cure the “original sin” of the earlier orders. All three orders, it said, were an effort to make good on President Trump’s campaign pledge to institute a “Muslim ban.”

In its own Supreme Court filing on Thursday, the A.C.L.U. urged the justices to proceed. “This case is not moot,” the group said. “Plaintiffs retain an all-too-real stake in the outcome of the case. The 90-day ban on their relatives has now been converted into an indefinite ban with the potential to separate their families, and thousands of others’, for years.”

Lawyers for the State of Hawaii, which had also sued to block the March order, agreed.

“The parties retain a live dispute regarding the legality” of the order, they wrote. “Accordingly, this court should once again set the case for argument and adjudicate the legality of the president’s ongoing effort to usurp Congress’s power over immigration and unilaterally ban hundreds of millions of foreign nationals — the overwhelming majority of them Muslim — from the United States.

Last month’s proclamation did not address a second aspect of the March order, which suspended the nation’s refugee program. That suspension was also at issue in the Supreme Court.

Mr. Francisco wrote that the administration will soon revise the restrictions on the refugee program, which are due to expire on Oct. 24. That new action, he said, will also make that second part of the cases moot.

In addition to urging the Supreme Court to dismiss the cases, Mr. Francisco asked the justices to vacate the two appeals court decisions under appeal. “If allowed to stand,” he wrote, “the lower courts’ decisions threaten to undermine the executive’s ability to deal with sensitive foreign policy issues in strategically important regions of the world.”

The plaintiffs in both cases urged the justices to let the appeals court decisions stand even if they dismiss the appeals from them.