Bob Corker, one of the Senate’s top Republicans, announced on Tuesday that he would retire at the end of his term in 2018.

“After much thought, consideration and family discussion over the past year … I have decided that I will leave the United States Senate when my term expires at the end of 2018,” Corker, a two-term senator from Tennessee who chairs the powerful Senate foreign relations committee, said in a statement.

The announcement came as Corker, a vocal critic of Donald Trump, wrestled with his political future at an inflection point for the Republican party under the current administration.

Corker alluded to his disagreements with the direction of Trump’s presidency in his statement, saying: “The most important public service I have to offer our country could well occur over the next 15 months.”

“I want to be able to do that as thoughtfully and independently as I did the first 10 years and nine months of my Senate career,” Corker said.

Corker joins a wave of Republican retirements that have hinted at the exhaustion of defending Trump’s actions within the party’s moderate wing.

Corker, who was briefly considered for Trump’s secretary of state before removing himself from contention, has routinely clashed with the president, particularly on matters of foreign affairs.

Often failing to hold back his visible dismay before reporters in the hallways of Capitol Hill, Corker most recently called for “radical changes” in the White House after Trump blamed “both sides” for the violence in Charlottesville last month.

“The president has not yet been able to demonstrate the stability nor some of the competence that he needs to demonstrate in order to be successful,” Corker said at the time.

Trump responded by attacking Corker on Twitter, stating: “Strange statement by Bob Corker considering that he is constantly asking me whether or not he should run again in ’18. Tennessee not happy!”

Corker faced a potential primary challenge from a number of Republicans in the state, including the conservative activist Andy Ogles, the former state representative Joe Carr and the state senator Mark Green.

While Corker’s US Senate seat remains a challenging seat to pick up for Democrats in the staunch Republican Tennessee, a string of high-profile Republican retirements could imperil the party’s prospects in next year’s midterm elections.

A number of Republicans serving in House of Representatives, including David Trott of Michigan, David Reichert of Washington, Charlie Dent of Pennsylvania and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen of Florida, have said they will retire from competitive districts that Democrats are targeting as they seek to regain control of the GOP-led Congress.

The Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee said Corker’s decision to join the ranks of retiring lawmakers was a sign that “vulnerable Republican incumbents see the writing on the wall”.

“They don’t want to defend their disastrous health care agenda, which is toxic with voters of every political persuasion, and are terrified to engage in divisive and expensive primaries,” a DSCC spokeswoman, Lauren Passalacqua, said in a statement.

“Senator Corker’s decision is the latest example of a key theme driving GOP Senate primaries across the country: divided and leaderless, Republican Senate campaigns have nothing to run on but a string of broken promises, and this dynamic will continue to define Republican Senate primaries across the map.”