VIA| Many Americans are of the belief that the longer politicians are in Washington, the more susceptible to corruption they become. Today’s notably aged Democrats certainly have a way of lending credibility to that notion. And though corruption knows no particular age, race or creed, there’s one group of Washington insiders who seem to pop up on the malfeasance radar with somewhat stunning regularity — the Congressional Black Caucus.

From Charlies Rangel (D-NY) being found guilty of eleven ethics violations to shamed former-Congresswoman Corrine Brown (D-FL) being indicted, pleading guilty to 22 federal counts and facing a potential sentence of 357 years to Alcee Hastings (D-FL) (a formerly impeached federal judge) busted for misusing public funds to pay his girlfriend $2.5 million, CBC members are no strangers to the ethics microscope as they seem to be perpetually the subjects of investigations.

Now it’s Maxine Waters’ (D-CA) turn. Again. Waters, whose incessant tweets and tirades about Donald Trump have become a thing of internet legend, was named “one of the most corrupt members of Congress” by the non-partisan group CREW (Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington) for a virtually endless string of accusations and/or violations. Waters made the CREW list in 2005, 2006, 2009 and appears poised to keep the roll alive in 2017.

The Washington Free Beacon is reporting that Waters has used public funds to pay her daughter, Karen Waters, over $600,000 since 2006:

The daughter of Rep. Maxine Waters (D., Calif.) was paid nearly $70,000 by her mother’s campaign during the 2016 election cycle.

Karen Waters has been on the payroll of her mother’s campaign committee, Citizens for Waters, since 2006. She has pulled in more than $600,000 for her services since that time…

Karen pulled in $65,287 overseeing the slate mailer operation in 2016, making her the third-largest recipient of Waters campaign funds that cycle. Karen, together with her firm Progressive Connections, has received over $600,000 in payments from the Waters campaign since 2006.

In 2010 Waters was brought up on three counts of ethics violations by the House Ethics committee for her Congressional advocation on behalf of a bank in which she had a financial interest. Well, actually not her, but her husband…somehow that’d different. From The Hill:

“The House ethics committee on Monday outlined its charges against Rep. Maxine Waters, who is accused of helping a bank in which her husband owned stock secure federal bailout funds.

The committee charged the 10-term California Democrat with three counts of violating House rules and the federal ethics code in connection with her effort to arrange a 2008 meeting between Treasury officials and representatives with OneUnited bank.

The panel said Waters, who sits on the Financial Services Committee, broke a House rule requiring members to behave in a way that reflects “creditably” on the chamber. The committee said that by trying to assist OneUnited, she stood to benefit directly, because her husband owned a sizable amount of stock that would have been “worthless” if the bank failed.”

This swamp cannot possibly be drained quickly enough.