Speaking on Fox News on April 13, only three days after President Donald Trump dropped the so-called “Mother of All Bombs” on a network of caves in Afghanistan, retired Ultimate Fighting Championship competitor and former Army Special Forces operator Tim Kennedy revealed why he recently chose to re-enlist.

“I got hope again,” he said. “The military — we got our team back. “We dropped the biggest bomb — 11 tons of TNT, essentially, goes into destroying everything within a mile radius.”

He also paid homage to Secretary of State James Mattis and National Security Advisor H.R. McMaster, noting that the presence of real military leaders in the government had “re-invigorated” him and brought the military back to life.

“So I jumped out of a helicopter last weekend and raised my mind and said I’ll protect the Constitution, because I got people that’ll back me now,” he added.

As noted by TheBlaze, eight years ago and after having served several tours overseas, Kennedy transitioned out of active duty and began focusing his time and effort on his passion — mixed martial arts.

Over the course of the next decade, he transformed into a legendary UFC competitor with a notable 18 wins on his belt. This stunning career came to an abrupt end three months ago, when Kennedy announced his retirement from MMA only three days before President Donald Trump took office.

Listen to his full statement below:

Kennedy said Sunday that he had been waiting until the November election to decide whether he would re-enlist, though it wasn’t until the president appointed Mattis and McMaster that he finally pulled the trigger.

“When Donald Trump starts putting guys like Gen. Mattis and Gen. McMaster in my chain of command … dude, let me tell you how good my life is about to get!” he explained.

Kennedy took to Instagram to put the Islamic State group on notice, as well:

Kennedy’s stunning decision ought to serve as a perfect example of the inspirational nature of true leadership. For eight years the American military lagged like a dial-up connection, falling further and further behind where it could and should have been.

With Trump, Mattis and McMaster in charge, however, change is already in the air.

Please share this story on Facebook and Twitter and let us know what you think about Tim Kennedy’s newfound faith in the U.S. military under President Donald Trump.