If British broadcasters talked like this in the ’40s, they’d be speaking German today.

English journalist and BBC anchor Katty Kay took to MSNBC this week to make the self-defeating claim that Europeans will “have to” get used to terror attacks after last week’s suicide bombing outside an Ariana Grande concert in Manchester, England.

The British anchor, appearing on MSNBC’s “Morning Joe” on Tuesday, gave the most absurd reason for her claim that Westerners should just accept the prospect of mass murders for political ends — because they’re never going to stop.

“Europe is getting used to attacks like this, Mika. We have to because we are never going to be able to totally wipe this out” Kay said according to The Daily Caller.

“As ISIS gets squeezed in Syria and Iraq, we’re going to see more of these kinds of attacks taking place in Europe and Europe is starting to get used to that.”

There are actual people within the liberal media who would actually rather you live in fear and terror — literally letting the terrorists win — than admit that they were wrong about the manner in which Islamist terror should be dealt with.

Anyone who is spreading such toxic messages to their audiences — British or American — should not be in a position of influence — any position of influence.

To her credit, Kay did acknowledge that the Manchester bombing was “particularly awful, this one, because it was girls,” but that’s not really the point. The only response to terror is to wipe out the terrorists behind it.

When so-called “journalists” are advocating “getting used to” terror attacks, they are actively helping terrorists achieve their goal.

Perhaps if people in the United Kingdom understood the concept of proper vetting or the Second Amendment, they wouldn’t resign themselves to “getting used to” an avoidable problem. They’d solve it, like their great-grandparents did.

This needs to be spread. Please share this message on Facebook and Twitter and let us know that you think about this statement, and let your friends know what terrorism is nothing to get used to!