The former president campaigned under a banner of “Change,” and set himself up as a champion of struggling people who would take on Wall Street and big business… but now that he’s out of the White House, his tune has quickly changed.

Obama has just raked in at least $1.2 million this month alone, and if he had any shame, the source should make him turn red with embarrassment.

According to The Daily Mail, that million-dollar paycheck has come from making expensive speeches to big Wall Street bankers.

“Bloomberg reported Monday that the former president spoke in New York to clients of Northern Trust Corp. A second appearance at the private equity behemoth Carlyle Group followed,” the newspaper stated.

At least three different banking groups have paid Obama $400,000 for him to appear. To put the $1.2 million in perspective, the median household income in the United States is just over $55,000 per year.

By taking in $1.2 million in a single month, Obama made over 260 times the average monthly paycheck of everyday Americans. So much for being against “the one percent.”

“I did not run for office to be helping out a bunch of fat cat bankers on Wall Street,” Obama declared back in 2009.

He also whined about “income inequality” numerous times during his tenure as president.

“This growing inequality isn’t just morally wrong; it’s bad economics,” he said in 2013, according to Business Insider. “When wealth concentrates at the very top, it can inflate unstable bubbles that threaten the economy.”

It looks like helping fat cat bankers and tipping income inequality in his favor is now in vogue, as long as the Wall Street paychecks are in his name.

To be clear, there’s nothing wrong with any individual legally earning a large sum of money. In fact, doing well financially should be admired.

What should not be admired, however, is being two-faced. The problem with Barack Obama’s staggering payments is that they come at the cost of being a disingenuous hypocrite.

Please press “Share on Facebook” if you’re fed up with being lectured by people like Obama and the Clintons, only to have them turn around and line their own pockets!