Never let a good crisis go to waste. That’s apparently the motto of one of the most prominent figures in Puerto Rico — and she’s using a natural disaster to play petty politics against Trump.

San Juan Mayor Carmen Yulín Cruz has insisted up and down that her vocal criticism of President Trump has nothing to do with politics, but her actions say otherwise.

First, Yulín Cruz attacked Trump for what she deemed a slow response to Hurricane Maria, despite the fact that other emergency managers on the Spanish-speaking island defended the president and thanked the U.S. for its help.

Then, the mayor of Puerto Rico’s largest city was spotted on TV wearing a custom-printed shirt that seemed to mock the Trump administration, even as countless relief supplies and U.S. Navy ships arrived at the island.

Now Yulín Cruz is at it again. While speaking to Al Punto Univision, the mayor wore a black shirt with one word in giant, bold letters: “NASTY.”

Where does she get these custom-printed T-shirts on an island that has been devastated by a hurricane?

The shirt was again a clear jab at Trump, who had accused the mayor of caving to Democrats in order to act nasty toward him.

“The Mayor of San Juan, who was very complimentary only a few days ago, has now been told by the Democrats that you must be nasty to Trump,” he wrote on Twitter several days ago.

On Wednesday, Yulín Cruz declared in Spanish, “What is really nasty is that anyone would turn their back on the Puerto Rican people.”

Apparently “turning their back” means sending FEMA, the Navy, the Coast Guard, ships, helicopters, and truckloads of supplies.

The San Juan mayor has been playing a political game since day one, and her oh-so-cute T-shirts prove it. If she truly wanted to focus on helping the people of her island instead of getting into sparring matches with the president, why print messages on her chest that do nothing but rile up drama and cause distractions?

In reality, Puerto Rico is a leftist failure. Even Trump critics admit that the island has deep infrastructure and corruption problems. Instead of preparing for inevitable hurricanes — a wise choice for a Caribbean island — Democrat bureaucrats like Yulín Cruz have spent all their time playing blame games.

Say what you want about Trump’s often controversial social media posts, but there is no doubt that Carmen Yulín Cruz is lying when she says that she doesn’t want to drag politics into the relief efforts.

Please press “Share on Facebook” if you’re tired of childish tactics from liberals like Carmen Yulín Cruz!