President Donald Trump has been working hard over the past week to ensure that the people of Texas get whatever resources they need from the federal government to help them recover and rebuild from the devastation caused by Hurricane Harvey.

At Thursday’s press briefing, White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders announced that Trump would be donating $1 million of his own money to the relief efforts, The Associated Press reported.

Huckabee Sanders announced that Trump would be reaching out to reporters to help him decide to which charities he should send the money. This is a gesture that will undoubtedly be greeted with hearty thanks by any charity that receives the money.

Trump’s gesture has brought up an interesting comparison. Forbes reported that during Obama’s entire time in office, he only donated $1.1 million to various charities.

Of that $1.1 million, Obama only gave $118.5k to disaster relief services.

Of course, Trump is much richer than Obama is, but Obama did make over $10 million while in office.

CNN reported that the Trump campaign has also asked supporters to donate to various charities such as the Red Cross to help out in Texas.

“He actually asked that I check with the folks in this room since you are very good at research and have been doing a lot of reporting into the groups and organizations that are best and most effective in helping and providing aid, and he’d like some suggestions from the folks here and I’d be happy to take those,” Huckabee Sanders stated.

This isn’t the first time Trump has gone out of his way to help the victims of hurricanes. Snopes reported that in 2016, in the aftermath of Hurricane Matthew, the Trump/Pence campaign delivered food and other supplies to the victims of the Hurricane in North Carolina.

Don’t expect the media to applaud Trump for this incredible act of generosity. After all, they would never want to admit that Trump actually did something nice to help people.

Instead, they will criticize his wife’s clothing, his style of speaking and literally anything else they can find to discredit him. It’s quite sad to watch.

Share this on Facebook and Twitter and let us know to which charity you think President Trump should donate his 1 million dollars.