Trump leaped in front of a parade that began in 2009 with the birth of the TEA Party Movement.

The Trump campaign embodied everything those who wanted America to recover from the Obama debacle desired.

What it proclaimed, what we were promised was an end to open borders, a repeal and replace of Obamacare, tax reform, and an end to give-away trade deals that have impoverished and debilitated us.

In other words, an America First administration supported by a do-something Congress.

And what have we gotten for our vote?   The RINOs, led by Ryan, McConnell, McCain, Flake, and Graham continue to obstruct everything President Trump tries to do.

No tax reform, no support on the immigrant ban, and no support in stopping the bogus Russian-under-every-table investigation.

The Republicans said they needed the House to stop Obama.

We gave them the House and they said they needed the Senate, too.

We gave them both houses of Congress and they did nothing to stop Obama.

They said they needed the Presidency and then they could do something to right the ship-of-state.

We gave them the presidency and since then it’s become obvious these political hacks were stringing us along all along.

We need to hold their feet to the fire.

Call them. Email them.  Show up at their town meetings.

Let them know we want them to make America great again.

Let them know we want what we voted for.

We want an America First government.

I doubt that any amount of lobbying by those of us in fly-over country will have any impact on the crooked lawyers and others who hold the levers of power no matter what political shell-game party they say they belong to.

There is only one party in Congress and it’s a two-headed bird of prey out to eat our lunch.

Watch for an acceleration of the witch hunt.

Watch for movement on the impeachment front.

Watch for a complete sell-out of everything we voted for in the interests of what the special interests paid for.

AntiFa Blackshirts and other bully boys who serve as the shock troops for the silent coup will not stop until there’s blood in the water.

The ABCCBSNBCPBSNPRCNNMSNBC Cartel will continue to cover-up the truth and proclaim the lie.

The Neocons have re-captured our foreign policy and are driving us towards the cliff.

It’s time for all of us who voted for President Trump to prepare for the counter-revolution.

Like Charlie Brown trying to kick the football, we keep on trying and trying no matter how many times they move the ball.

America, the greatest experiment in freedom in human history is worth trying to save from the statists and their collective fever dreams of utopia.

Now is the time for all patriots to come to the aid of their country.

Raise your hand and vote by participating in the process for making America great again.

Keep the faith. Keep the peace.   We shall overcome.