On Thursday, we reported that the Senate Republicans couldn't pass a simple "clean" repeal of Obamacare.  We then reported they were going to try a "skinny" deal, leaving most of Obamacare intact.  That couldn't even be done due to Republican Senator John McCain's deciding vote.

On Friday, Senators Susan Collins (R-ME), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), and John McCain (R-AZ) all voted to make sure that any hopes of talks to move towards repeal were dashed.

While Collins and Murkowski are known Democrats wearing an "R" on their jerseys, McCain has become known as the Judas over the past decade.

"Songbird," as he was affectionately known by many during the Vietnam era, sided with Democrats against the GOP's attempt to move in the direction of repeal.

President Donald Trump even expressed disgust with the Senate.

"3 Republicans and 48 Democrats let the American people down. As I said from the beginning, let ObamaCare implode, then deal. Watch!" Trump tweeted.

And here is the traitor at work.

You might think me harsh for a man who has learned he has brain cancer, but I submit to you that such a man remaining in office after discovering that, knowingly is putting the people he represents in danger from his foolishness.  I don't know if that cancer has anything to do with his love of Islamic jihadis or not, but whatever the motive is, John McCain rightly needs to leave public office.

I'm praying for him in the manner I'm praying for many in DC:

Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell also failed to deliver.  It's clear that he wants Obamacare to remain in place despite his rhetoric.

The "skinny" repeal was aimed at repealing certain aspects of the Affordable Care Act, which people said they agreed on.  However, It was nothing close to a full repeal of Obamacare.

Yet, the Republicans look like a bunch of sissies fighting on a playground instead of coming together like the Democrats did, and in one quick motion, eradicating this albatross from around the necks of the American people.

All they needed was a simple majority and they couldn't even get that!  These people are impotent.

Shame on every Republican who voted against the "clean" repeal only to fail in passing something that was essentially nothing.