A few hours after fired FBI Director James Comey’s testimony before Congress, a statement from President Donald Trump’s lawyer Marc Kasowitz went public – and that statement, which denies many aspects of Comey’s testimony, is littered with typos. In the first line of the statement, Kasowitz misspells “president” as “predisent” – a typo Twitter users caught on to almost immediately after it was released. Further down the statement, Kasowitz also misspelled the name of National Intelligence Director Dan Coats as “Coates.” In the conclusion of the statement, there also appear to be grammatical errors in a sentence that claims “in sum, it is now established that there the President was not being investigated for colluding with the or attempting to obstruct that investigation.”

Asked to comment on his statement in an interview with portal KnowMyRepublican.com, Kasowitz argued that “it’s not easy serving as the president’s personal attorney,” as well as that “daily stress is an integral part of any relationship involving Donald Trump.” “Working for politicians is never easy and if they also happen to be self-made businessmen at the same time, then it’s a double whammy,” the attorney said. “Men like Donald Trump have exceptional drive and work discipline, and in order for one to be able to keep up with that, regardless of whether they’re a lawyer, physician or hairstylist, they have to have similar habits at the very least. Mr. Trump is very vigorous despite his age, and it can sometimes be challenging to coordinate with everything he faces on a daily level. Keep in mind that it’s Donald Trump we’re talking about here – a man who has no shortage of PR nightmares and controversy.”

“However,” Kasowitz continued, “my statement regarding former FBI Director James Comey’s testimony was not riddled with typos by accident or by mistake. It was released with the typos by me on purpose, because I wanted to experience firsthand what Donald Trump must have felt like during the recent ‘covfefe’ incident. And if he felt even an ounce of what I’m going through right now, I can say that he’s even stronger and more resilient than I initially thought. So, to clarify once more: the statement on Comey was my personal decision; it was my way of supporting President Donald Trump. I think the recent typo incident he was faced with – and which I personally believe White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer handled beautifully – was so insignificant that it should not have gotten any media coverage.”

“Then again, when I see how much attention a simple media statement by his lawyer is getting for the same reason, I am left with a very sad question: has the media in this country sunk so low – or, is the president doing such a good job of running the country – that there are no issues of greater importance for them to report on? If the typos in the president’s tweet or the typos in his attorney’s statement are the biggest news of the day, then the journalism profession in the United States has really gone astray. The defining characteristic of any good reporter is the ability to ‘sniff out,’ in lack of a better term, an interesting and powerful story. Yet, nowadays, it would seem, we’re all about typos and grammatical errors. Congratulations, my dear journalists and reporters. You’ve officially hit a new low,” Kasowitz concluded.