In the past few weeks, YouTube has made an unprecedented move to censor political outlets which they claim promote hate speech or extremist content. However, as Julian Assange just pointed out, peaceful anti-war politicians like Ron Paul are also being snubbed out in the name of controlling the narrative.

When standing up against an illegal war with a message of peace and liberty becomes a censorable ‘offense’ it’s time to start paying attention.

To not be so blatant about their attempt to quash peaceful anti-war messages, YouTube is employing a form of soft censorship. Instead of simply deleting the videos—which has happened to the Free Thought Project on numerous occasions—YouTube is moving to slowly strangle alternative media through defunding their accounts, limiting their reach, and informing new viewers that the content may be offensive or extreme.

Through employing these various soft censorship techniques, YouTube is effectively manufacturing the narrative. When certain opinions are suppressed while others are promoted, this is a de facto form of social engineering.

The establishment must control the narrative in order to control the people. Once society begins to question the status quo, those in power risk losing their grip. Make no mistake, what we are witnessing on YouTube and Facebook right now is a move to silence the peaceful opposition. Sadly, social justice warriors and the PC police are cheering it on because their political enemies are also being silenced. These folks would do well to remember that their speech will be next.

As the Free Thought Project reported earlier this month, this censorship is not a partisan issue. Those on both the left and the right are watching as the tape is slowly placed over their proverbial digital mouths.

“This is political censorship of the worst sort; it’s just an excuse to suppress political viewpoints,” Robert Epstein, a former editor in chief of Psychology Today and noted expert on Google, told wsws.

Those who’ve been paying attention predicted this crackdown and watched it come to a head at the beginning of this month, when the Anti-Defamation League (ADL) applauded Google and YouTube for taking on hate speech and extremist content while having the ADL be the ones who decide what gets flagged.

It is no mistake that this crackdown is also coinciding with a massive push by the mainstream media to stoke divide among the people. If you watch the coverage of many of these protests and counterprotests, you may come to the conclusion that America is on the verge of a civil war.

The reality is far different, however — at least for now. Americans, in general, simply want to be with their families, make a living, and be at peace with their neighbor. However, if that happens, then people start to wake up. So, divisive identity politics are shoved down the collective throats of the masses in order to create an atmosphere so divided that people never look up at who’s controlling them.

Disagreeing with the status quo is the new hate speech—speak out and you will be mowed down.

Below are the examples of videos flagged by YouTube as “Not suitable for all advertisers.” They are not promoting hate, violence, discrimination or anything even remotely offensive. In fact, it is quite the opposite. These videos are promoting peace and prosperity for all.

What’s more, this list shatters the paradigm of Trump supporters claiming it is only them being censored. Many of the videos flagged and “confirmed by manual review” are critical of Trump.

If these videos simply called Trump a ‘Nazi’, promoted the Russian hacking conspiracy theory, made fun of the way he talks or promoted some other superficial mainstream media narrative, rest assured they would not be flagged. However, they are critical of his foreign policy—which makes them critical of the establishment’s desire to spread war and build empire—so they are censored.

If ever there were a time to start moving to another platform or building a media network outside of the establishment’s control, that time is now. And, the good news is that it’s happening.

One such move is the social media platform Steemit.

This uncensorable network is a blockchain-based social media platform where anyone can post and read what they want — and even earn money. It works in a similar fashion to Reddit; however, instead of being banned or censored for posts, if other users like your content, you make money.

As the deep state continues to tighten its grip on humanity, we need to continue to resist through outlets like this one. Also, it has never been more important to inform your family members and friends of the blatant censorship taking place under their noses. Please, encourage them to seek out alternative media and bookmark it as those like Google, YouTube and Facebook — who have a monopoly on the dissemination of information — may make it all but impossible to find in the near future.

Please share this article with your friends and family to show them that it’s not just extreme content being censored on YouTube—the very idea of promoting peace is now under attack and we must resist it through spreading awareness before George Orwell’s slogan from 1984 is realized forever.

Matt Agorist is an honorably discharged veteran of the USMC and former intelligence operator directly tasked by the NSA. This prior experience gives him unique insight into the world of government corruption and the American police state. Agorist has been an independent journalist for over a decade and has been featured on mainstream networks around the world. Agorist is also the Editor at Large at the Free Thought Project. Follow @MattAgorist on Twitter, Steemit, and now on Facebook. This article first appeared at The Free Thought Project.