The left has one goal and that is to completely destroy and discredit the conservative movement. They have been working effortlessly, through the universities and other institutions, to create the impression that their morals and values are mainstream. People on the right, espousing conservative viewpoints, are to be ridiculed and cast aside as extremist, hateful bigots who marginalize minorities and women. In too many instances, unfortunately, the so-called right falls for the trap and literally manufactures the rope from which they will later hang. There is no better example of this than the recent Bill O'Reilly situation where it was revealed he paid out millions to settle with those who were accusing him of sexual harassment. Some people would argue against the notion that O'Reilly was, in fact, a conservative; however, in the minds of millions, he was the voice of the conservative movement, who, as of now, has been successfully silenced by the left. After years of dominating the news with his so-called "no spin" approach, O'Reilly has accomplished little more for conservatives than feeding the left wing narrative that conservatives are sexist, chauvinist pigs.

If the right truly wants to win back this country, we must start living up to the values and morals we espouse. There is more than a simple war against conservatism going on: there is an all-out assault on the very nature of truth itself. The left is seeking to change the nature of man and his understanding of natural law. The normalization of homosexuality and transgenderism, the teaching of moral relativism as opposed to moral absolutes and the feminization of the American male are all deliberate attacks against the free will of man designed to destroy God's creation and remake man in the left's image. We will never be able to stop the onslaught against our values, as long as the left is able to prove that we cannot live up to them. Remember, this is an Alinsky tactic and every time a prominent conservative figure falls, they prove it to be a successful one.

Essentially, what Alinsky is saying is that it is easy to make conservatives look like hypocrites because, in too many cases, their behavior does not live up to the moral codes they allegedly live by. Rush Limbaugh often discusses this topic. He frequently points out the fact that hypocrisy, while more prevalent on the left than the right, is something that fails to stick to them. What he falls short of explaining clearly is the fact that the left is working from a place where there are no moral absolutes. Christians, as well as right-wing conservatives, wear their values on their sleeve, and we believe that is, in fact, our values and belief system that made this country great. Leftists believe in moral relativism, meaning that there is no universal morality; therefore, they have no morals to live up to, making it difficult to label them as hypocrites. Morality to them, like gender and the Constitution, is fluid and can be changed to meet the situation they are currently in, in order to achieve the results they seek in the moment, and they have no shame in employing this tactic. A recent example is Harry Reid admitting he lied about Mitt Romney's tax returns and bragging that it cost him the election. In pursuit of the perfect "socialist utopia," the left believes that sacrificing their own morality is, in fact, the highest level of morality that can be achieved. To further understand this we again, turn to Alinsky.

Essentially, the left believes that their socialist utopia is what is best for mankind and that corrupting themselves in order to achieve it is the highest level of morality. This is why you can never slap them with the label of hypocrisy - they simply don't care. They believe that their compassion, their intentions to do good, far outweigh the actual consequences of their actions. The damage they actually cause is either ignored or viewed as a necessary step in America's transformation.

There really is no way to fight an enemy who conducts this type of psychological warfare, short of actually living up to the values we espouse. People in the conservative movement have to conduct themselves in a manner that is beyond reproach because around every corner is a social justice warrior seeking to discredit everything we believe in. When people like Bill O'Reilly or others, who, by their own actions, allow themselves to be silenced by the left, bring this type of discredit to conservatism, we have to work twice as hard to prove that the left-wing narrative is incorrect to those sitting on the sidelines. The election of Donald Trump, despite what others claim, was not a victory for conservatism but the perfect example of people being forced to cast a vote because there was no other choice. The war for hearts and minds is still very much alive and there are millions of future voters who are conditioned by the left to go along to get along. We will not win this cultural battle if the mainstream is successfully presenting liberalism as morally superior and conservatives as chauvinistic. We can not allow them to turn us into hypocrites because we cannot live up to our own "book of rules." We have to start by being the change we want to see.

Article reposted with permission from In Defense of Our Nation