Josue Zurita, a 31-year-old man from Galveston, TX, was recently killed by a fatal flesh-eating disease called necrotizing fasciitis. It’s a very rare bacterial infection that is known to kill soft tissue on the human body. People tried to figure out where and how he acquired the disease and it appears as though it was indirectly caused by Hurricane Harvey.

The man was helping with the damage caused by the Hurricane Harvey flooding and repairing homes for people and the tainted flood waters must have entered a wound or cut on the man’s skin. The wound in question was located on his upper left arm. This information was released by the Galveston County Health District. He walked into a hospital and six days later passed away.

The 31-year-old Galveston resident went to the hospital on October 10 with a seriously infected wound on his upper left arm. He was diagnosed with necrotizing fasciitis, a rare bacterial infection that kills soft tissue, and died on October 16, according to the Galveston County Health District.

“It’s most likely this person’s infection occurred when bacteria from Harvey debris or floodwater entered his body through a wound or cut,” Dr. Philip Keiser, Galveston County Local Health Authority, said in a press release. “This is a very rare infection but that doesn’t make it any less heartbreaking for this person’s family and friends.”

That’s a very sad and unfortunate thing to happen to someone who was helping repair homes after a brutal natural disaster. His friends and family are likely devastated that this man who was so helpful fell victim to something so rare.

“He’s a very caring person,” said Brenda Avalos, wife of Josue’s cousin Anastacio. “He has a lot of friends here in Galveston that love him. Everybody is very sad. He was very young and always smiling.”

According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, it’s very rare that a person with a strong immune system and good hygiene would attain such a disease as necrotizing fasciitis. This is, so far, the only reported case of the flesh-eating disease in Galveston County that was in relation to flood waters caused by Hurricane Harvey. There may have been other cases, but none directly in conjunction with the flooding caused by the massive hurricane that blasted the region with 52 inches of rain and killed over 70 people.

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says people with strong immune systems who practice good hygiene and proper wound care have a low chance of getting necrotizing fasciitis. The Galveston County Health District is reminding people working on Hurricane Harvey recovery projects to take proper care of wounds to avoid further infections. The department adds that this particular infection was not related to Vibrio vulnificus, a bacteria naturally found in beach water.

It’s stated that anyone working in these conditions, where tainted water might enter a wound, that people should be extra careful and clean to avoid infections of the wounded area. Some people might forget while they’re exhausted and busy working to restore parts of Texas that were hammered by Harvey, so it’s extremely important to remind each other about taking care of the simple things that we often overlook.

As reported by Fox2Detroit:

 People with wounds or cuts should:

Keep open wounds covered with clean, dry bandages until healed.

 Don’t delay first aid of even minor, non-infected wounds (like blisters, scrapes or any break in the skin).

 Avoid contact with natural bodies of water (lakes, rivers, oceans) if you have an open wound or skin infection.

 Wash hands often with soap and water or use an alcohol-based hand rub if washing is not possible.

 Seek medical attention for redness, swelling or fever.

While some people might consider this basic knowledge, others might consider it a refresher on our common practices of hygiene and taking care of our body. Some people don’t realize how important it is to ensure cleanliness of wounds to make sure their body is protected from further damage. Any simple cut on our body can be an opening for a plethora of bacteria that could do major damage if not taken care of fast enough.

Other reports from KHOU state that this may not have been the first victim of flesh-eating bacteria caused by the murky floodwaters of Hurricane Harvey. They’re a local news website in Texas who state there were at least three people who passed away from the disease.

There’s been a third case of flesh-eating bacteria since Hurricane Harvey.

The disease had already killed one person and made another very sick. This most recent patient, Josue Zurita, did not survive.

The local news outlets would likely have better information on the particular statistics, but it does not affect the message behind the story that has deeply hurt the friends and family who lost their loved one.

Whether one person or three people passed away, the story remains the same. Take good care of yourself and stay on top of these things when you’re helping out.

Zurita’s wife, Brenda, has a GoFundMe page up if you’d like to help the family with expenses.

FOLLOW us on Facebook at Freedom Daily!