“To love. To be loved. To never forget your own insignificance. To never get used to the unspeakable violence and the vulgar disparity of life around you. To seek joy in the saddest places. To pursue beauty to its lair. To never simplify what is complicated or complicate what is simple. To respect strength, never power. Above all, to watch. To try and understand. To never look away. And never, never, to forget. ” – Arundhati Roy

“What is dying?  I am standing on the seashore. A ship sails to the morning breeze and starts for the ocean. She is an object and I stand watching her Till at last she fades from the horizon, And someone at my side says, “She is gone!” Gone where? Gone from my sight, that is all; She is just as large in the masts, hull and spars as she was when I saw her, And just as able to bear her load of living freight to its destination. The diminished size and total loss of sight is in me, not in her; And just at the moment when someone at my side says, “She is gone”, There are others who are watching her coming, And other voices take up a glad shout, “There she comes” ~ and that is dying.“

My enclosed photo of my beloved grandfather joyously awaits watching the horizon for my eventual approaching sail as well as with my deceased mother and my late twin brother who cannot barely contain his excitement ~ “There he comes”

The thread of a Unified Field of love and soul consciousness lies not only beyond time and space ~ but is also beneath our deepest fears ~ and when our heart achieves its desire ~ we shall transcend time and space as William Blake indeed demonstrated by singing songs to his wife at his passage.

Heart centered spiritual consultant and advisor Allen L Roland can be contacted at [email protected] Allen is also a lecturer and writer who shares a weekly political and social commentary on his web log and website allenroland.com. He is also featured columnist on Veterans Today and is a featured guest on many radio and Television programs.