BLACK ROCK CITY, NV – Screaming for someone, anyone, to extinguish the flames engulfing his body, no one within earshot of 28-year-old Vancouver resident – and man currently on fire – Zack Bischoff, seems to be registering his genuine peril, as he slowly burns alive at this year’s Burning Man.

“Dear God! Help me!” yelled Bischoff through the red hot flames. “Please! I’m on fire!”

The arts festival held in the middle of the desert that culminates the burning of a giant man in effigy, is currently packed with drug-addled experience seekers, all of whom have reportedly chalked up the sight, sound, and smell of Bischoff’s immolated figure as either a hallucination or an ambitious art installation while he begs for water.

“Wow, the fire is so beautiful,” said festival-goer and noted MDMA user Shauna Morningstar, after briefly seeing what appeared to be an anthropomorphic bonfire before turning her attention back to the drum circle she was participating in, drowning out Bischoff’s desperate pleas while he runs ablaze in pathetic circles.

Bischoff reportedly ignited after venturing too close to a lantern while wearing a handcrafted, garment of long flowing fabric, which family members say, he was very proud of, up until the moment it caught on fire and threatened his life. With the heat quickly searing his flesh, Bischoff’s only hope of combating the human wick effect is for someone around him, literally anyone, to notice that he’s really a man on fire in need of their help, and to douse the flames, which, as of press time, was definitely not happening.

“Did you see that artist who actually set himself on fire?” asked long time vendor Joel Magnotta, unaware that the Bischoff’s cries for “Mommy” were not the artistically directed irony representing some sort of social commentary that he may have suspected, but were in fact the final agonized words of a man brilliantly glowing in a fiery demise.

“A bit on the nose, if you ask me,” he added.

Zack Bischoff leaves behind his mother, and two brothers.