While the media, the Democrats and many Republicans have been losing their minds, spending our money and wasting time on investigating something they have no evidence for investigating, namely the Trump administration colluding with the Russians, the real colluders were Barack Hussein Obama Soetoro Sobarkah and Bill and Hillary Clinton.

It isn't like we haven't pointed out some of this collusion before here, but C. Mitchell Shaw reports at The New American:

Newly released information confirms that it is Hillary Clinton — as secretary of state — and not Trump who can be shown to be “Putin’s puppet. The Hill, Fox News, Newsweek, and others are reporting that a deal between Clinton’s State Department and Russian interests that transferred 20 percent of U.S. uranium to Russian control involved bribery, collusion, and coverup. And Clinton’s fingerprints are all over it. This confirms reports published by The New American even as the failed Clinton campaign and its accomplices in the liberal mainstream media continued to beat the stillborn horse of Trump/Russia collusion. In an article originally published in our print magazine and later published online, this writer addressed the evidence of “unethical, illegal, and corrupt behavior” revealed in the leaked Clinton campaign and DNC e-mails and documents published by WikiLeaks: Those e-mails and documents serve as a box full of smoking guns against the DNC and Clinton campaign. A quick look at just a few of those smoking guns — any of which alone would be damning — illustrates why Clinton (with the help of the liberal media) wanted to keep the attention on the supposed source of the leak, rather than on what the e-mails show about Clinton and her comrades in the DNC.... As secretary of state, Clinton “reset” relations with Putin’s Russia, which helped the Clinton Foundation and its donors make millions of dollars off a deal that sold the mining company Uranium One (and 25 percent of our strategic uranium production) to Russia. That report by The New American — in February — was published months before The Hill “broke” this story. Now, more is known about that deal. And the more that comes out, the worse it looks for both Clinton and Obama: FBI and court documents show that the Obama-era FBI (under the “leadership” of ousted FBI Director James Comey) was aware that Putin’s regime in Moscow had compromised an American uranium trucking firm with bribes and kickbacks in violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, according to a report by The Hill. As an aside, does anyone still think it was a mistake for Trump to fire Comey? The evidence of bribes and kickbacks is not mere conjecture and innuendo (as in the case of allegations against Trump), but is solidly supported by “a confidential U.S. witness working inside the Russian nuclear industry” who gathered “extensive financial records,” made “secret recordings,” and intercepted “emails as early as 2009,” according to The Hill. Moreover: They also obtained an eyewitness account — backed by documents — indicating Russian nuclear officials had routed millions of dollars to the U.S. designed to benefit former President Bill Clinton’s charitable foundation during the time Secretary of State Hillary Clinton served on a government body that provided a favorable decision to Moscow, sources told The Hill. The racketeering scheme was conducted “with the consent of higher level officials” in Russia who “shared the proceeds” from the kickbacks, one agent declared in an affidavit years later. And yet — even with the FBI and other federal authorities being aware of this in 2009, the DOJ dragged the investigation out until 2015, allowing a deal to go through that transferred between 20 and 25 percent of U.S. uranium to Russia in the Uranium One deal that fattened the coffers of the Clinton Foundation, strengthened Putin’s Russia, and weakened the United States. For the anti-American element (for whom Clinton was the perfect candidate), that is a win/win/win scenario.

In a secret tarmac meeting, Hillary Clinton told the FBI's Robert Meuller to deliver uranium to the Russians.

Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton facilitated the transfer a highly enriched uranium (HEU) previously confiscated by the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) during a 2006 “nuclear smuggling sting operation involving one Russian national and several Georgian accomplices,” a newly leaked classified cable shows. So-called “background” information was provided in the cable which gave vague details on a 2006 nuclear smuggling sting operation in which the U.S. government took possession of some HEU previously owned by the Russians. "Over two years ago Russia requested a ten-gram sample of highly enriched uranium (HEU) seized in early 2006 in Georgia during a nuclear smuggling sting operation involving one Russian national and several Georgian accomplices. The seized HEU was transferred to U.S. custody and is being held at a secure DOE facility." The secret “action request,” dated Aug. 17, 2009, was sent out by Secretary of State Clinton and was addressed to the United States Ambassador to Georgia Embassy Tbilisi, the Russian Embassy, and Ambassador John Beyrle. It proposed that FBI Director Robert Mueller be the one that personally conduct the transfer a 10-gram sample of HEU to Russian law enforcement sources during a secret “plane-side” meeting on a “tarmac” in the early fall of 2009.

This short 2:19 video demonstrated that the Clintons were the ones colluding with Russia for the sake of profit.

In July, I reminded readers that the Clintons made hundreds of millions of dollars selling that Uranium to the Russian and that Uranium was then sold to Iran.

Reporter Pete Santilli, who was at Malheur and had all charges dismissed against him in September said, "Before being arrested I was researching and reporting on the connection between Malheur, Hillary Clinton, and Uranium One. I was arrested the day after I released the [Hammond Legal Files] and at that point my investigation was effectively stopped; now that Donald Trump has brought the issue back into the spotlight, I thought we should take another look."

The Hammond Legal File, is a 682 page legal history of the Hammond family's decades' long fight over land rights with the BLM and Department of Fish and Wildlife in Harney County, Oregon. Nestled in the pages was a letter that Santilli dubbed, "The Mineral Letter" and has never been seen until now.

 The letter was addressed to Chad Karges, head of "The Department of Fish and Wildlife" whose office is located at the Refuge. While the letter did not reveal a clear connection between Malheur and Uranium One, we did find it revealed that as of 2012 the mineral rights – surrounding and inside the property itself, belonged to 2 private investment firms. That information coupled with Uranium One's Facebook post does open the door for possibility.

 The letter is of great interest because just a short time before it was written to Karges, it was being widely reported that Oregon Energy llc [a subsidiary of Uranium One] was poised to start mining for Uranium in Oregon.

 Bob Robertson, the Attorney from Medford Oregon who wrote to Karges in July of 2012, and is also the administrator of Mountain Star Investments LLC, one of the principal mineral rights owners on the refuge, explains in the letter; The joint venture owns a total interest of 22,000 acres of mining reservations around and inside the Refuge including the parcel the Refuge Headquarters sits on.

 Interestingly, Robertson is no stranger to fighting for property owners in Oregon. In 2007 he was part of a legal team that fought for 25 Oregon land owners to have the right to develop their properties as they saw fit.

 IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO HELP SUPPORT PETE SANTILLI & DEB JORDAN PLEASE CLICK 

 James M. Lemons is the owner of multiple companies in Texas and also owns the other investment company mentioned in the letter, JM&L Investment LTD. Among his holdings is a company called Fellowship of The Metroplex, a string of bankrupt churches throughout Texas and other Western States. This does not fit the profile of a man who supposedly owns 22,ooo acres of mineral rights, that includes the Malheur Refuge headquarters.

 The problem with Lemons is, he seems to own shell companies that really don't produce anything. One researcher for this article claimed; "This is not uncommon in cases like these, and it is highly probable James M. Lemons is not even a real person."

 Bob Robertson claims in the letter that Mountain Star Investments LLC was a company in 2012, but the information on the web says the company was not formed until 2014. It is listed only as an investment company.

 Since both companies leave much to the imagination, I will leave this section open for updates as obviously more research needs to be done. Is there a connection to Uranium One? That questions yet to be fully answered.



This gets to the heart of why the Hammond land was at stake in the Oregon fiasco. As I reported in January the Hammond's Ranch is rich in Uranium and other minerals. In fact, it's worth billions!

Santilli says that the central government continues to refuse to admit that the BLM's illegal land grab is all about Uranium.

Getting back to Obama and Clinton, Newsweek reported: “The Obama administration signed a controversial nuclear deal with Moscow despite prior FBI findings that Russian officials were bribing their way into the U.S. atomic energy industry, according to government documents just published by The Hill.”

Now, it appears there might actually be an investigation into the real colluders by the Senate.  Fox News is reporting that Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-IA) is calling on his committee to investigate the Uranium One deal.

Interestingly enough, Democrats are silent, but that doesn't come as a surprise.  They were the ones touting in the media how serious collusion with the Russians was when they went after President Trump without any evidence, but when the shoe is on the other foot, they run back into the closet like the cockroaches they are.