Well, it's amazing to me that people would even want to hear what Hillary Clinton would have to say about anything in the first place, but since the Trump administration will not keep it promises to investigate and prosecute her, she's here for a while and we end up having to listen to her blather.

Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton seems to believe that President Donald Trump is such a threat to the united States that she told state-controlled media outlet PBS News Hour that he is a “clear and present danger.”

The White House “has been in disarray over national security from the very first day,” Clinton said.

On Friday, Clinton claimed that Trump doesn't actually have a national security team and blasted Secretary of State Rex Tillerson for not asking her for advice.

“I don’t know who [Tillerson] has reached out to. He certainly hasn’t reached out to me,” Clinton said.

While I personally don't care that he didn't ask here, I mean what is he going to ask her about?  Using illegal email servers that can be hacked to obtain sensitive national security items that end up ultimately getting people killed?

Or perhaps, he would like to ask Mrs. Clinton on ignoring calls for greater security for America's ambassadors when they are surrounded by her Islamic jihadi friends in Muslim countries.

Maybe he might need some advice on how to lie to the collective faces of the American people about what were clearly Islamic jihad attacks, but tell the people the jihadis were offended by an irrelevant YouTube video.

Whatever advice Mrs. Clinton might offer would be really bad advice.

She then criticized Trump's dealings so far with North Korea.

Clinton ripped Trump for making "diplomatic pronouncements on Twitter" and praising both Kim Jong Un and Russian President Vladimir Putin.

“He’s being played by these dictators in a way that undercuts our credibility and the capacity to come up with a diplomatic solution in that region” and around the world, Clinton said of Trump. “I’m deeply concerned, and I think in many ways the Trump presidency poses a clear and present danger to our country and to the world.”

Right, and Clinton and Barack Hussein Obama Soetoro Sobarkah weren't played by dictators around the world?  Oh wait, they weren't played, they were in bed with them.

Clinton said Tillerson has been “largely invisible excepting for his obsession with cutting the budget at the State Department.”

Why does he need to be out in the open every day anyway?  And why does the State Department need to have all that money in its budget?

For Mrs. Clinton, we know how she got her money at the State Department: Pay to play.  Yep, and this career criminal, who both she and her husband have ignored national security and sold sensitive technology to the Chinese, as well as Uranium Ore to the Russians has the audacity to say the Trump administration should be asking her for advice.

Maybe they should ask advice on how they can make a bundle by supplying America's enemies with technology and weapons.  Yep, now I get it.

Clinton also had a few words about Defense Secretary James Mattis.

Mattis “often acts like both secretary of defense and secretary of state because there’s a big void to fill there,” Clinton said.

As far as I can tell, when it comes to foreign policy, Trump is not handling things in the manner he promised he would and in the manner that the Constitution provides for such as the missiles that were launched in Syria and even the entire fiasco with North Korea.

However, that does not mean that Clinton is right in her assessment of what is taking place in the administration.

The one thing that is almost surreal in all of this is that a woman surrounded by such scandal, who has engaged in criminal activity and who compromised national security many times continues to walk the streets free and pontificate as if she knows what national security actually is.

All of this Hillary Clinton promotion and propping up by the state-controlled media is obviously to promote Hillary's new book, "What Happened? " which does nothing more than blame everyone and anyone for why she suffered such a humiliating defeat at the hands of Donald Trump for the White House.

Even that pitiful excuse for a book received such terrible reviews that Amazon, owned by CIA-tied Jeff Bezos, scrubbed hundreds of bad reviews to prop up the ratings on the book.

While Clinton believes that Trump poses a threat “domestically to our institutions of democracy, our self-governance, our rule of law," Mrs. Clinton actually was a threat to our republic, since we are not a democracy, our self-governance and the rule of law.

Again, I ask, Mr. President, when are you going to keep your promise concerning this career criminal, Hillary Clinton?  You are in charge of the executive branch and if you don't follow through, who will?