It doesn’t quite have the cadence of “You’re fired.”

President Trump appeared to joke on Monday about dismissing UN Ambassador Nikki Haley — before pulling a 180 to heap praise on her “fantastic” job performance.

“I want to thank Ambassador Nikki Haley for her outstanding leadership, and for acting as my personal envoy on the Security Council. She’s doing a good job,” Trump began during a working lunch with UN Security Council ambassadors, according to pool reports.

“Now, does everybody like Nikki? Because if you don’t ... Otherwise, she can easily be replaced,” he quipped. “No, we won’t do that, I promise. We won’t do that. She’s doing a fantastic job.”

The President proceeded to slight the UN as an “underperformer” that “doesn’t like taking on certain problems” such as Syria’s use of chemical weapons.

“I have long felt the United Nations is an underperformer but has tremendous potential,” he said. “There are those people that think it’s an underperformer and will never perform. ... I’m so happy with the job that Nikki is doing and our representatives.”

Trump, calling himself “a budget person,” added that UN costs had “absolutely gone out of control.”

Haley, the former South Carolina governor and onetime Trump critic who now reps the U.S. on the UN Security Council, has emerged as one of Trump’s most visible and vocal foreign policy figures since taking office in January.

Haley, Tillerson contradict on their assessments of Syria policy

In the wake of Syrian President Bashar Assad’s chemical weapons attack on his own people, Haley — showcasing unsettling photos of children slain in the attack — passionately addressed the Security Council on its “responsibility to act.”

Soon afterward, Trump ordered the U.S. Navy to launch 59 Tomahawk missiles at the Syrian air base believed to be the origin of Assad’s attack.

Haley, more recently, gave multiple tough-talking TV interviews on North Korea amid rising U.S. tensions with the reclusive dictatorship.

“What we have said from the beginning, and what I’ll continue to say, is the United States is not looking for a fight so don’t give us a reason to have one,” she said Monday on NBC’s “Today” show.

The President has allowed Haley to speak her mind freely on foreign policy matters, she told CNN in a mid-April interview.

“He has given me a lot of leeway to just say what I think and interpret what he thinks,” she said. “I would never go rogue, because I'm very aware of who I work for.”