Salma Hayek's poor reviews of President Trump are well-documented, but the actress continues to hold out hope for another member of the First Family: Melania.

The Mexico-born "How to Be a Latin Lover" star — and vocal critic of Trump's stance on immigration — admits the First Lady remains "a bit of a mystery," but she believes Melania, an immigrant herself, could offer a unique perspective on America's pressing social issues if she spoke up more.

"I wish she was a bigger influence on her husband," Hayek told the Daily News of her hopes for the First Lady.

"I'd love to know how she feels about things, and who she is, and what she's planning to do. The only thing we've heard her say is that she was gonna work on a campaign against bullying on social media. I hope she starts with her husband."

Melania has spent the bulk of her husband's presidency away from the spotlight, rarely giving speeches and continuing to reside in New York as her 10-year-old son Barron finishes school while Trump operates from the nation's capital.

Hayek, meanwhile, has slammed Trump for referring to Mexicans as "rapists" and criminals, while speculating that his proposed border wall between the United States and Mexico would be far too expensive — and much too geographically unrealistic — to actually get built.

The actress, 50, would love to see Melania inspire a change in her husband's ways of dealing with people.

"I really think that taking the more elegant and diplomatic way of dealing with things is better than threats and bullying people," Hayek said. "It's not a good example, especially if she wants to take that cause (of online bullying)."

Trump gets nudge from Melania to raise hand for National Anthem

Despite her political savviness, Hayek — who was briefly an undocumented immigrant after she first came to America — has no intention of ever meeting with the Trumps to discuss the nation's problems.

"There are more important people that they should sit down and talk to," she said.

Hayek celebrates her Mexican culture in her latest movie, "How to Be a Latin Lover," in which she stars as a single mother named Sara who takes in her estranged brother Maximo (Eugenio Derbez) after his wealthy, much-older wife leaves him for a younger man.

The actress had promised to do a movie with Derbez, one of Mexico's biggest movie stars, if he ever made the switch to Hollywood. Playing her longtime friend's on-screen sister in the comedy proved a perfect fit, and the duo managed to implement their real-life values and aspects of their upbringings into the flick.

Salma Hayek says Trump planted gossip story when she rejected him

"We improvised a lot," Hayek said. "We were already driving (director Ken Marino) crazy with the Spanish because we were talking in Spanish all the time, and then when we started doing the scenes in Spanish."

"We ended up improvising 90% of it," she said. "Most of the crew spoke Spanish, and they were laughing, and poor Ken Marino was so lost. But he wouldn't cut, because he knew something good was happening."

Hayek came up with one particularly memorable scene in the movie — due out April 28 — that features her character breaking into a salsa dance with Derbez's in hopes of lifting their spirits as they work through their own issues.

The heartwarming moment comes with a lesson that anyone can learn from.

"I do that in real life. I can turn any song into a salsa song," Hayek said. "I think that's what you have to do when you're sad. You have to sing to the music in your head and make it upbeat."