In a most elaborate hoax all the injuries in the 1995-era Oklahoma City Murray building bombing were faked. Just how these fakes were achieved has yet to be fully identified. Even so, they were fabricated, nonetheless. This means that, for certain, no one died, although minor incidental injuries may have occurred, accidental ones, unintended, though this is unconfirmed. Yet, as far as injuries occurring within the buildings or in their surrounds this was all staged. That can clearly and categorically be seen by the following images. Where are the bomb-blast injuries? Where is the expected dust? Where are the actual wounds and lacerations that account for the degree of red matter?

A person can see the fraud, here, as this image depicts a staging zone for the fake wounded:

NOTE: despite the destruction seen in the area there is nothing real about this ‘catastrophe.’

In the DailyMail caption it was said that these people were injured by a “car bomb.” No one can find that plausible. As well, it was feigned as a triage unit. It is not. Rather, it is a staging zone for crisis actors, and there can be no other possibility.

Here is one of the most obvious crisis actor shots available. It can be seen, categorically, that there is no real blood, here. There are no wounds. Surely, there are no lacerations that would account for the pattern of the red. Regardless, why wouldn’t someone wipe up that red color and stem the ‘bleeding?’

Why leave her roam about like this? It makes no sense.

There are no such evidences or injuries, period. This is clearly Hollyw00d-style imagery, with men in white shirts being drizzled through fake blood-bladders and blood packets.

See the hard proof, here. As the camera pans out a top-level camera-man is found right on-site, capturing the staged imagery. Actually, a careful assessment of the video-derived imagery shows a tripod to the left screen and another camera person (right-screen), though not visible in this image:

Clearly, these men are actors. There is no other possibility.

Here is another example of this degree of fraud. Yes, fraud it is, which is to feign an attack on a public building, destroy that building, and destroy associated infrastructure for a lie: to grossly deceive.

It can be seen that this is moulage, too, mere water-soluble paint, a sophomoric act, purely inane.

Clearly, this is an arch-fake, phony show, a mere fraudulent representation, where there is nothing real about it and where all these actors are surrounded by a litany of media moles. Such canned imagery is hard proof of the scam and the hoax.

In this image she looks directly at the camera, appealing to the public sensibilities, creating emotionalism, on behalf of her evil masters.

It appears, too, that she was ‘dressed’ in this regard by various moulage moles on the yellow tarp, which is tainted by fake water soluble blood:

There’s a gurney right behind her. Why would she be placed on that stretcher?

Here, she looks directly at the camera:

Even so, it seems unfathomable from a cursory view of the imagery, as it is emotionally jarring: much red matter, numerous people bandaged, and the children, the horrific injuries of those children, some of which were coated in dust, greased over in grease, and covered, once again, in red matter. Plus, supposedly, children and adults were buried alive: shocking, emotionally jarring.

For instance, the father of this child says he was burnt up, in fact, burned over his whole face and, actually, his “whole body.” Does this child look like he is suffering from burns or any other real injuries? Plus, if this child was really burned and injured, what medical staff would allow what is seen, here? The mother with an ungloved finger is pressing about the child’s face, in fact, pressing on his nose. No proper medical personnel would allow this to be done. Regardless, the fact is there are no burn injuries on this individual.

Nor are there an penetrating wounds. There isn’t a single laceration to be seen. It’s all moulage, no doubt about it. Moreover, to think that they did this, which was to manipulate human emotions just for the sake of treacherous lie and fraud, may God condemn them.

Here are additional fake injuries. Once again, all that can be seen is red matter. There is not a single injury, not a single, visible wound of any kind: no abrasions, cuts, scrapes, puncture wounds: no harsh trauma or blunt injury of any kind. In no instances is the skin penetrated by anything, not even by a chard of glass. Moreover, regarding the child there are no lacerations or injuries. To use a child like this, to use such a one to perpetuate a fraud and a lie, to do so for wicked intent – what could be more treacherous and wretched than this?

In the following example there is extensive use of moulage. Notice that there is little to no red matter, though, on the sheet:

It’s all paint. Once again, no wounds are visible.

This individual was coated with diatomaceous earth, then drizzled with fake blood. There are no wounds visible that would account for the red matter. Regardless, what are all these people doing on the streets giving interviews?

This man looks like he is transporting a Ziploc bag of fake blood, although this is yet to be confirmed.

Now come additional crisis actors ready for the camera-shoot. Who can doubt that this is the case, in other words, that these men are not wounded in the least and that they are staging this? With all these people standing about bleeding all over, where are the emergency workers to triage them and rush them to the hospital?

Here is an obvious example of painted moulage. How could this be a real wound? There is no bleeding and no laceration. The EMT or actor is playing around with gloved hands, acting like he is palpating the abdomen.

What about this? What is this supposed to represent? It appears to be Igor the Dummy. What real human being has fangs like that? With a color like that, surely, this is a dapper cadaver dummy. The lengths to which the government went to perpetrate this fraud and to heap this lie upon the American public, all for an arch-treacherous, deceitful agenda.

This means that Oklahoma City was a total lie and that no one died and no one was injured. It also means that no actual day-care was bombed and that this, too, was fully staged.