The London tube bombing, purportedly on the District Line, Parson’s Green Station, is fake to the extreme. It’s an obvious phony, and no one will be able to demonstrate otherwise. It is as if, though, they don’t even try any more. They just run these hoaxes and see how they fall. There is no decided effort to any degree to make them realistic.

What in God’s name are these obnoxious ones attempting to do? The powerful ones behind Western governments have destroyed the Middle East, causing countless deaths and injuries. Iraq is on fire, Afghanistan is dying of radiation, and Syria has been obliterated. There are refugee camps, in fact, death camps abounding.

Is this some inane attempt to prove that the ‘West’ is superior, that we will “carry on and won’t let them tarnish our values?” How absolutely treacherous it is, the perpetrators attempting to gain sympathy after they have caused great destruction in the land.

Moreover, this is supposed to be a bomb, right, of course, on the tube? No one finds this plausible to any degree.

Then, if this is a real ‘bomb,’ then, what are people doing? They are just standing about watching it about to blow-up as the ‘fire’ expands? “It’s an Islamic bomb. Run for your life.”

People were panicking. Sure they were, right. Do these people look like they are in a panic to any degree?

Anyone with the slightest degree of intelligence can tell this is nothing other than an arch-fake.

Even so, incredibly, the world is supposed to believe that people were injured. Yet, if it is blamed on Islam, most people will believe it, despite the fact that this faith bans any such acts against the general public.

Look at this man. He is supposed to be representing a “charred head,” though he calls it “Chard,” from a supposed fire ball. Where is the char? In fact, there isn’t any. Instead, all is seen is bits of moulage charcoal plus moulage make-up to mimic singing, a poor job at faking it, indeed:

Where is the injury pattern? Where is the singing of the hair? Why doesn’t he wipe that crud off his forehead?

We’re supposed to believe that this woman is injured. What about this represents a fire-bomb injury?

Getty says she is a victim. Are we to believe it?

Why is the camera-person smirking? What is he doing there, front-and-center? It makes no sense other than the fact that it is a fake.

By the way, the man with the phony singed head “sought no medical attention” and instead, bravely, went back to work: at a carpet shop, apparently. It appears that the man is a rabbi:

This is a fake, make no mistake. There is nothing to see, here. No one died, and no one, certainly, was injured. There were not “22” people hurt in this ‘event.’ It’s the same as all the other London fakes, and the rabbi has proven it.