Here's a look at noteworthy statements by President Trump and his advisers on his immigration travel ban, from December 2015 to the present:

"It’s not unconstitutional keeping people out, frankly, and until we get a hold of what’s going on. And then if you look at Franklin Roosevelt, a respected president, highly respected. Take a look at presidential proclamations back a long time ago ... what he was doing with Germans, Italians, and Japanese, because he had to do it. Because look, we are at war with radical Islam."

Trump speaking on NBC, answering whether he had scaled back his call for a Muslim ban by focusing on countries instead:

Trump speaking during the second presidential debate in St. Louis:

Trump when asked whether recent violence in Europe had affected his plans to ban Muslims:

Trump speaking to the Christian Broadcasting Network, explaining a provision in his first travel ban that gives immigration preference to religious minorities:

Trump before signing the first travel ban during a ceremony at the Pentagon:

Trump adviser and former New York City mayor Rudy Giuliani speaking on Fox News, when asked how Trump selected the seven countries targeted in the first ban:

"So when he first announced it, he said ‘Muslim ban.’ He called me up. He said, “Put a commission together. Show me the right way to do it legally.’ What we did was we focused on, instead of religion, danger. It’s based on places where there are substantial evidence that people are sending terrorists into our country."

Trump senior policy adviser Stephen Miller speaking on Fox News after a federal judge blocked the first travel ban:

Trump speaking at a rally in Nashville, Tenn., after a federal judge in Hawaii blocked the revised travel ban:

"This is a watered-down version of the first one. And let me tell you something. I think we ought to go back to the first one and go all the way, which is what I wanted to do in the first place."

Trump tweeting after the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 4th Circuit maintained a block against the revised travel ban: