The corruption of Washington, DC is blatantly on display – has been for some time now.

Repeated congressional investigations and hearings occurring during the previous administration and in the past months of the Trump administration have resulted in nothing, leaving political criminals roaming free.

From James Comey, Lois Lerner, Hillary Clinton, Barack Hussein Obama Soetoro Soebarkah to the new information discovered regarding Robert Mueller and Rod Rosenstein's indiscretions, citizens have suffered through the injustice of the lack of justice.

The "dog and pony" circus of government resulted in Breitbart's Steve Bannon spearheading a movement to oust establishment Republicans and RINOs, replacing these "seat holders" with individuals of good character and integrity who will honor their oath of office.

Bannon identified his main target as Senator Mitch McConnell (R-KY).  His intent has not set well with the Washington establishment elite, particularly Senator Susan Colllins (R-ME).  Appearing on Tuesday's MSNBC show "MTP Daily," Collins declared the targeting of McConnell supporters by the former White House strategist as "inconceivable."

According to the video clip and Breitbart:

Collins said, “I think what Steve Bannon is trying to do is completely inappropriate and also inconceivable to me. He’s not looking at how people vote on issues that matter to President Trump. He’s looking at whether or not they support Mitch McConnell as majority leader. Mitch McConnell is key to President Trump’s ability to get tax reform through, for example.” She added, “So I don’t understand Mr. Bannon’s approach. Obviously, he has the right to say or do whatever he wants. But I certainly don’t think that it is at all constructive.”

This is clearly a case of the pot calling the kettle black.  While Collins criticizes Bannon for beginning a campaign against the "establishment swamp," supporters of McConnell as Senate Majority Leader, she certainly has not criticized those members of the Republican Party in both chambers of Congress for their continued undermining of President Trump.

And, Collins certainly leaves out McConnell's track record of "bowing" to Democrats, particularly Hussein Soetoro, during the last eight years.

When it comes to leadership, McConnell is soft.

He has failed to unite Republicans to repeal Obamacare.

He failed to stand against usurpations of the Constitution and the lawlessness of the previous administration.

With Paul Ryan (R-WI) as the Speaker of the House, both refused to stand against the agenda of Democrats.

It would be conceivable to assume those Republicans supporting McConnell would be supporting the same "soft serve" governance when it comes to standing in support of Trump's agenda and against Democratic obstruction.

Moreover, Republicans holding office, who may have voted in the past to support issues Trump favors, are steadily throwing up roadblocks against his campaign platforms as well as working to file articles of impeachment against him.

These same "political swamp creatures" never once could develop and file articles of impeachment against Hussein Soetoro when over 1,100 documented examples existed of that man's criminality, lawlessness, unconstitutional actions, and misdemeanor of lying.

Maybe Collins should provide examples of those establishment Republicans who have voted in support of issues important to Trump – recently, not in the past.

Collins does not explain nor does Todd ask what is inappropriate or not constructive about replacing RINOs and establishment Republicans who have demonstrated repeatedly their inability to uphold their oath of office, fail to speak out against injustice, lawlessness, and criminality within the federal government, and fail to bring lawbreakers to account for their actions.

Isn't that how our system works – replacing those failing to do their job through the ballot box using extensive campaigns while endorsing candidates who will?

These "supporters" of McConnell are following the example of their leader.

If McConnell is the key to getting a passage of "tax reform," well, it is much better that he leave office since tax reform is code for "rape of the middle working class."

As it stands currently, the Republican "swamp creatures" are working more with Democrats than with Trump.

But, every citizen should know by now that our elected officials lie then tell more lies on top of lies.

Honesty and integrity are rare commodities in the District of Corruption.

Aptly, Collins is the quintessential example of lacking in those two areas.

Because of her personal failings, she is nervous Bannon will get her ousted from her comfortable "welfare job."

In fact, Collins may be fearful that Bannon is igniting a campaign reminiscent of the election cycle of 1800.

The Federalist Party supported a strong central government while the Republican Party supported a more agrarian republic centered on a limited central government.

During the presidency of John Adams, the newly formed republic saw the enactment of the Alien and Sedition Act of 1798, criminalizing false speech against the federal government – a violation of the First Amendment, and increasing the difficulty of immigrants to become citizens.

Moreover, the great divide occurred around the French Revolution with Federalists fearing the French radicalism, gravitating more toward America's old adversary, Great Britain, while Republicans were sympathetic to France.

With the Federalists support of Great Britain, Republicans feared a return to a rule under a monarchy, reversing the effects of the American Revolution.

It isn't difficult to see the similarities.  Political correctness, supported by both parties, as well as the name-calling and labeling of conservatives and constitutionalists, is used by our elected officials and opposing faction to silence speech those in government do not like.

Both parties support impunity for illegal alien invaders' violation of immigration law.

And, there is support for these illegal alien invader interests over those of citizens and support for the Islamization of America against the outcry of citizens.

Americans have been witness to the attacks on Christianity, the neutering of our military, encouragement of Antifa, Black Lives Matter and other groups to cause anarchy, and support for the murder of babies in the womb backed by RINOs and almost ignored by establishment Republicans.

Establishment Republicans and RINOs back the continued surveillance state, violations of the First, Second, Fourth, Fifth, Sixth, Eighth, Ninth, and Tenth Amendments, and civil asset forfeiture.

There are more indiscretions and crime to list but this small-itemized list serves to prove a point.

In fact, one can hardly tell establishment Republicans, RINOs, and Democrats apart.

The issues may be different but the similarity exists in growing power of the central government while limiting the right of the people to self-govern through attempts to eradicate the rights of the people by covert or overt means or with intimidation and force.

The appropriate action to take is ousting those individuals working against freedom, liberty, life, the pursuit of happiness, and those trying to institute the social justice totalitarian society.

Collins needs to understand that it is better to be removed by ballot than by bullet.

It is "the right of the people to alter or to abolish" government;  and "to institute new government, laying its foundation on such principles and organizing its powers in such form, as to them shall seem most likely to effect their safety and happiness," whenever "any form of government becomes destructive" to the self-evident truths, fails to secure the unalienable rights of men, and the people no longer consent to live under government enacting bad laws.

Somehow these charlatan political leeches have forgotten about the Laws of Nature and of Nature's God referenced in the Declaration of Independence, adopting the attitude their positions are permanent, the arrogance to assume a superiority to represent the people, and the assumption citizens will continue to consent to whatever legislation they see fit to enact.

It didn't work out so well for King George III of Great Britain.

They would do well to remember that citizens are "anything other than a woman scorned, like which fury hell hath no," to quote the famous words of Captain Jack Sparrow .