Ed Klein, author of Guilty as Sin: Uncovering New Evidence of Corruption and How Hillary Clinton and the Democrats Derailed the FBI Investigation, UNLIKEABLE: The Problem with Hillary, The Truth About Hillary: What She Knew, When She Knew It, and How Far She’ll Go to Become President and Blood Feud: The Clintons vs. the Obamas, wrote on Tuesday that the Justice Department has not only reopened the investigation into Hillary Clinton’s mishandling of classified material on her private email system while she was Secretary of State, but also offered her a plea bargain.

“The discussion of a plea bargain took place late last month and was offered by a high-ranking Justice Department official to the Clinton lawyer,” wrote Klein.

“During the exploratory talks with the prosecutor, the Clinton attorney was told that despite former FBI Director James Comey’s decision last July not to prosecute Hillary, the Justice Department has reexamined the email case and believes there are ample grounds for prosecuting Hillary on a number of counts,” Kelin added.

He then outlines the terms of the plea offer, which would allow her to only admit she committed crimes, but would not hold her accountable for any of them and would spare her charges in the investigation, as well as squash any further investigations into her other criminal acts of pay to play deals while Secretary of State.

“Under the Justice Department’s plea offer, Hillary would be required to sign a document admitting that she committed a prosecutable crime,” Klein wrote. “In return, the DOJ would agree not to bring charges against Hillary in connection with the email probe.”

“Also as part of the agreement, the Justice Department would not proceed with an investigation of Hillary’s pay to play deals with foreign governments and businessmen who contributed to the Clinton Foundation or who paid Bill Clinton exorbitant speaking fees,” Klein continued.

“The Clinton attorney cautioned that normally a plea is offered by a prosecutor only upon arraignment, and Hillary has not yet been charged with any crime,” he concluded.

In an exclusive interview with Infowars, Klein said, “My source is the golden standard of sources. The lawyer who is my source is closer to the Clintons than anybody.”

Klein does not believe that Clinton would accept such a plea bargain.

“In my view and in the view of my source, it is highly unlikely – almost zero – that Hillary Clinton being Hillary Clinton will accept – if it were offered, and it has not yet been offered – a plea bargain,” Klein said.

“She’s just not that kind of person,” he continued. “Even though legally speaking a plea bargain might clear the decks quicker, in the sense that she would then presumably not be prosecuted for anything, she’s the type of person who fights every inch of the way against every possible attack that has been launched against the Clintons for the last 30 years.”

When asked if the plea bargain on the email scandal meant that the DOJ would give the Clintons a pass on investigating other improprieties at the Clinton Foundation, Klein said, “My understanding, but this is interpolation, not reporting, is that the preliminary discussion of a plea bargain would make Hillary immune to prosecution on any and all counts.”

“My assumption is that Hillary would plead guilty on the email charges, but in return, the Justice Department would agree not to prosecute her,” he added, noting that he could not confirm his answer.

Klein went on to add, “If the agreement not to prosecute Hillary would extend to other issues, for instance, lying about Benghazi, or doing ‘pay-to-play’ deals with foreign government or business contacts in return for contributions to the Clinton Foundation, or Bill Clinton getting these exorbitant fees as a return favor for something Hillary did as secretary of state – I don’t know for sure if a plea bargain would extend this far – I assume it would, but I don’t know for certain.”

Klein did state that the Justice Department is now in possession of all of the files James Comey had on the Clinton email investigation.

“It’s a huge story and I am utterly confident of my source,” Klein said “I have double and triple checked. I have used this source before on many other occasions in writing books and he’s always proved totally accurate.”

He also wondered why the media had not been questioning the Justice Department on the story.

“My guess is the Justice Department’s response would be ‘no comment,’” Klein said. “And I’m equally confident the Clintons would dismiss the entire story as without basis, but that response would be the response from the Clintons that I would anticipate.”

“The Clintons lie through their teeth,” he concluded.

That’s something we already know, but I’m sure the media isn’t going to give this story any major play as they would have to out their beloved Hillary, and we know they just are not going to do that.

Tim Brown is an author and Editor at FreedomOutpost.com, SonsOfLibertyMedia.com, GunsInTheNews.com and TheWashingtonStandard.com. He is husband to his “more precious than rubies” wife, father of 10 “mighty arrows”, jack of all trades, Christian and lover of liberty. He resides in the U.S. occupied Great State of South Carolina. Tim is also an affiliate for the Joshua Mark 5 AR/AK hybrid semi-automatic rifle. Follow Tim on Twitter.