ALBANY — Gov. Cuomo and the state Democratic Party are set to kick off a summer-long statewide voter registration drive Sunday at the Pride March in the city.

Part of the "New York Fights Back" campaign the governor created earlier this month to target six New York House Republicans, the voter registration drive will also focus on the Senate GOP health care bill unveiled last week that is “even worse than we imagined," Cuomo wrote in an email sent to supporters through the state Democratic committee.

The email sent a day before the march cites estimates that 1 million in the LGBTQ community nationally would lose coverage under the GOP bill.

"With 40% of people living with HIV relying on Medicaid, the bill's deep cuts could literally be the difference between life and death," Cuomo wrote.

He added that "the only people this bill isn't hazardous for are the top 1% who will get a $40 billion tax break."

The New York Fights Back Campaign in coming weeks will be launching similar voter registration efforts in the districts of Republican Reps. John Faso, of Columbia County, and Chris Collins, of Erie County, as well as throughout upstate, Long Island, and the Hudson Valley, a source close to the effort said.

"You know how bad this bill is — now join us in doing something about it," Cuomo wrote. "We can't wait for November 2018. We're kicking off a series of voter registration drives across the state and need your help to get it started."

Cuomo: Senate's health care bill an 'assault' on New Yorkers

"He's tied himself to (House Democratic Minority Leader) Nancy Pelosi's hip," Proud said. "Clearly he hasn't gotten the memo that it's why Democrats keep losing elections."

Cuomo's "New York Fights Back" campaign so far is targeting six districts — Faso, Collins, Lee Zeldin (Suffolk County), Elise Stefanik (Essex County in the Adirondacks), Claudia Tenney (Oneida County), and Tom Reed (Steuben County in the Southern Tier).

Cuomo has been trading shots with Faso and Collins over their provision that was included in the House and Senate bills that would shift the local share of Medicaid outside New York City onto the state — a move that he said would cost the state an additional $2.3 billion a year.

Faso and Collins say the provision is designed to lower local property taxes and argue that Cuomo should be able to easily find the savings in a budget that exceeds $150 billion.