Kathy Griffin has lawyered up amid cutthroat backlash over her gory anti-Trump photo shoot.

The comedian hired civil rights lawyer Lisa Bloom and was set to address the controversy at a Friday morning press conference in Los Angeles, Bloom announced on Twitter late Thursday.

"Earlier this week, Ms. Griffin released a controversial photograph of herself posing with a faux-bloody mask of Donald Trump's face," a statement from Bloom's firm said.

"Ms. Griffin and Ms. Bloom will explain the true motivation behind the image and respond to the bullying from the Trump family she has endured," the statement said.

The ghastly pic led to fierce condemnation on social media and cost the comedian several lucrative jobs. It also drew fire from the First Family.

"My children, especially my 11-year-old son, Barron, are having a hard time with this. Sick!" Trump tweeted on Wednesday.

Griffin "should be ashamed of herself," he said.

First Lady Melania Trump called the photo "very disturbing."

"When you consider some of the atrocities happening in the world today, a photo opportunity like this is simply wrong and makes you wonder about the mental health of the person who did it," she said in a statement.

Griffin, 56, apologized within hours Tuesday, admitting the photo "wasn't funny" and should never have been published.

"I sincerely apologize," she said in a video posted on Twitter. "I'm a comic. I cross the line. I move the line, then I cross it. I went way too far. The image is too disturbing. I understand how it offends people."

The president's eldest child Donald Trump Jr. wasn't having it, dissming the mea culpa as "phony."

"I'm counting down having to explain it to my 8 and 10 year olds who I'm sure will see/hear about it at school," he said on Twitter.

A statement released by CNN said the network "found what she did disgusting and offensive."

The image led a Utah-based toilet stool maker called Squatty Potty to drop Griffin as a spokeswoman and also prompted venues to cancel some of her upcoming gigs.

Fellow comedian Jim Carrey was one of the voices defending Griffin.

"I think it is the job of a comedian to cross the line at all times...because that line is not real," Carrey told Entertainment Tonight.

"If you step out into that spotlight and you're doing the crazy things that (Trump is) doing, we are the last line of defense," he said.