A wartime government film from the 1940s is going viral for its striking parallels to current tensions in the U.S.

“Don’t Be a Sucker” has been making its way through social media since Saturday, when white nationalists clashed with counter protesters in Charlottesville, Va., killing one person.

Many were quick to point out the similarities between the 1943 short film — re-edited in 1947 — and current racial tensions.

The War Department-produced, 17-minute film warns of the division hate groups like the Nazis can bring to a nation.

Heather Heyer died 'fighting for what she believed in'

The anti-fascism film used to “teach citizens how to avoid falling for people like Trump is relevant again,” Canadian anthropologist Michael Oman-Reagan said in a tweet with a clip of the film on Saturday.

From there it was tweeted out by many urging their followers to watch it.

The film delivers an overture about how people can be “suckers” by falling for rouses that con them of their well-being.

There are those that want to take away what makes America great, namely diversity and freedom, the government-approved film says.

One of those free Americans is the film’s main character, Mike — a white American man who stumbles upon a rambling pontificator atop a soapbox.

The man tells his assembled crowd that he has the answers to all the problems that plague Americans — in eerily similar rhetoric used by today’s white nationalists and neo-Nazis.

A Hungarian professor comes alongside Mike and comments that never did he expect to see this type of talk in America.

Mike counters that his arguments that minorities and foreigners are stealing jobs isn’t all that bad.

Until his next line:

“I tell you, friends, we’ll never be able to call this country our own until it’s a country without,” he says, adding that it needs to be without black people, “without alien foreigners, without Catholics, without Freemasons.”

Mike’s ears perk up: he’s a Freemason, he tells the Hungarian man, and wants to know what the guy’s problem is.

As the rally breaks up, the professor takes Mike to a bench, sits him down and explains how he’s seen this before.

The educator, who’s become a U.S. citizen, was teaching in Berlin in 1932 when he saw the Nazis come to power.

“I heard the same words we have heard today,” the accented professor tells Mike. “But I was a fool then. I thought Nazis were crazy people, stupid fanatics.”

“Unfortunately it was not so. They knew they were not strong enough to conquer a unified country, so they split Germany into small groups. They used prejudice as a practical weapon to cripple the nation.”

The professor goes on to detail how five young German men were singled out and divided during a Nazi rally — among them are a Jew and a Catholic.

He details the rise of the Nazis as footage of book-burning rallies and military maneuvers plays.

Those men who aren’t among the persecuted religions go off to fight for Hitler and Germany — meeting their end on the front lines in Russia, Italy and France.

By the end of professor’s cautionary tale, a pensive Mike is seen smoking a cigarette.

His new friend explains that Mike is part of several minorities because he’s not just a Freemason, but also has blue eyes and is a Methodist.

But, the professor explains in the U.S. military film, minorities are what makes America great.

Mike then tears up the hate-mongering speaker’s pamphlet as it blows away into the wind.