An American-based businessman who works for a powerful Russia real estate company — and was once accused of a $1 billion laundering scheme — was identified Tuesday as the eighth person at the infamous Russia meeting at Trump Tower last year.

Ike Kaveladze, 52, joined Trump campaign associates and Russian nationals at the meeting that has become a spiraling scandal for the Trump administration, his lawyer confirmed.

Kaveladze’s attorney Scott Balber said Special Counsel Robert Mueller asked if Kaveladze would agree to an interview. Mueller's request would be the first indication that he is investigating the meeting as part of his probe into the Trump campaign's potential Russia ties.

Donald Trump Jr., the President’s eldest son, set up the sitdown after being promised dirt on Hillary Clinton from a Russian lawyer.

What you should know about Ike Kaveladze from Trump Tower meeting

Balber said Kaveladze got roped into the meeting just to “make sure it happened,” since he works for the family that wanted to set it up. He claimed Kaveladze had no direct involvement and doesn't even recall speaking.

“He literally had no idea what the meeting was about until he showed up right before,” Balber told the Los Angeles Times.

Balber and Kaveladze did not return calls from the Daily News.

Kaveladze is a senior vice president focused on real estate and finance at the Crocus Group, a company owned by the Agalarov family in Russia, which has ties to President Trump and his family. According to emails released by Trump Jr. last week, a member of the Agalarov family wanted to set up the Trump Tower meeting in the first place.

Kaveladze’s website says he oversees the company's international developments, including "securing and structuring project investments” with foreign contractors.

The Georgian native, who immigrated to the United States and earned an MBA from the University of New Haven, has a troubled past with foreign finances.

In 2000, the U.S. Government Accountability Office accused Kaveladze of laundering more than $1.4 billion from Russia and eastern Europe through U.S. banks in a scheme that spanned nearly a decade.

Kaveladze allegedly opened more than 2,000 shell corporations in Delaware on behalf of Russian brokers and then opened bank accounts for them.

Campaign paid Trump Jr. attorney $50G before meeting was reported

He denied the accusations and said the investigation was an American “witch hunt” against Russians — echoing a term Trump uses today to describe the federal investigations into his campaign.

Kaveladze is believed to be the final person who will be identified as a member of the meeting at the Trump Tower.

Previously confirmed were: Trump Jr., President Trump's son-in-law Jared Kushner, former Trump campaign manager Paul Manafort, Russian lawyer Natalia Veselnitskaya, her translator Anatoli Samochornov, Russian-American lobbyist Rinat Akhmetshin and music publicist Rob Goldstone, who initiated the meeting.

Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) said Tuesday that Mueller would have "no problem" with Trump Jr. testifying before the Senate Judiciary Committee about the meeting, which he has already hinted he will do. Mueller would also allow Manafort to testify, she said. No hearings have been arranged so far.

Goldstone pitched the meeting by emailing Trump Jr. with promises of offering "incriminating" information on Clinton, Donald Trump’s Democratic opponent. Goldstone acknowledged that this was "part of Russia and its government's support" for Donald Trump.

Trump Jr. never revealed the meeting until The New York Times exposed it this month. Even after releasing Goldstone's emails and saying he was being "totally transparent," Trump's eldest son did not disclose the details of who attended.

Goldstone said he wanted to arrange the gathering on behalf of Emin Agalarov, a pop star whose father Aras runs the Crocus Group.

Trump met with the father and son in Moscow while visiting for the Miss Universe pageant in 2013. Photos from his time there show Trump dining with the Agalarov family and Kaveladze.

After returning to the United States, Trump tweeted to the elder Agalarov that he wanted to collaborate with him on opening "Trump Tower Moscow." But that project never happened.

Trump has consistently denied having business or personal ties to Russia, despite regular revelations — such as the Trump Tower meeting — that prove otherwise.