The mainstream media may be trying desperately to claim that Donald Trump’s presidency is on the rocks, but the real-world results are telling a very different story.

As the economy surges to record-breaking new heights, the manufacturer of the popular Apple iPhone has revealed a multi-billion dollar surprise… and it’s happening in a state that Trump unexpectedly flipped during the election.

Foxconn, which is one of the largest makers of the Apple-branded iPhone and other digital devices, has announced a new research and development plant in Michigan.

According to the South China Morning Post, the Michigan factory won’t be making iPhones. Instead, the plant will focus on autonomous vehicles and other automotive technology.

“Automotive development in the US is still more advanced than China,” Terry Gou, the founder of Foxconn, explained. “Besides self-driving technology, I’m also interested in artificial intelligence and deep learning technology.”

The Taiwan-based company did not disclose the exact amount being invested in Michigan. However, analysts at sources such as CNBC confidently estimated that several billion dollars would be spent.

“Founded in 1974, Foxconn is the world’s largest electronics manufacturer, and has been an assembler of computers for Dell, as well as iPhones and iPads for Apple Inc,” the Morning Post explained.

The news of the massive investment in American jobs came just days after another major announcement from the same company. Foxconn previously announced that a plant in Wisconsin will create between 3,000 and 13,000 new jobs in that state.

Not to be outdone, well-known auto makers also got in on the “America First” action.

“Toyota and Mazda said this week they will jointly build a US$1.6 billion assembly with the capacity to produce 300,000 electric self-driving cars and create up to 4,000 jobs,” reported the Post.

It’s worth pointing out that the two states receiving new Foxconn investments — Wisconsin and Michigan — were both “flipped” by Trump during the last election.

Both of those states were previously won by Barack Obama, and few political pundits had predicted that Republicans might re-take the Midwestern states.

Trump’s electoral victories in Wisconsin and Michigan surprised observers and helped secure his 2016 win.

With the stock market reaching record highs at the same time that jobs are returning to the U.S., a “snowball effect” of investment might be taking place.

Success often leads to more success… and right now, the American worker is the one benefiting from the Trump economy.

If you support bringing jobs back to America, press the “Share on Facebook” button below!