Since day one, there have been rumors among the mainstream media that chief White House strategist Steve Bannon was on the verge of being fired, and those rumors turned into loudly voiced demands following the racially charged debacle in Charlottesville over the weekend.

It appears the constant push against Bannon’s presence and role in the White House has finally taken its toll, as The New York Times reported Friday that President Donald Trump had decided to send Bannon on his way out the door.

Reporter Maggie Haberman wrote that Trump has been speaking with other senior White House officials for some time about how and when to get rid of Bannon, who had been increasingly clashing with others in the administration.

But there was a twist to the Washington guessing game that ended Friday. While most earlier speculation and reporting focused on how Trump would move to get rid of Bannon, sources close to Bannon were saying that Bannon had actually tendered his resignation on his own back on Aug. 7. His departure from the White House was scheduled to be announced earlier this week, reports state, but had been temporarily put on hold due to the events in Charlottesville.

ABC News reported that Bannon’s resignation would be effective Aug. 14, exactly one year after he officially joined Trump’s team.

“White House Chief of Staff John Kelly and Steve Bannon have mutually agreed today would be Steve’s last day. We are grateful for his service and wish him the best,” said White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders in a statement to the media Friday.

Just days earlier, during his much-criticized news conference Tuesday in Trump Tower regarding infrastructure spending and the Charlottesville violence, Trump had offered up something of a defense of Bannon amid calls for him to be ousted, according to Breitbart.

“Look, I like Mr. Bannon. He is a friend of mine,” Trump said in response to questions about whether Bannon’s job was secure. “I like him. He is a good man. He is not a racist. I can tell you that. He is a good person. He actually gets a very unfair press in that regard.”

Pressed for more, Trump reminded reporters that he had won the Republican primaries without Bannon and would be capable of carrying on without him, if need be, but refused to signal one way or the other what his intentions were.

“We’ll see what happens with Mr. Bannon,” Trump said. “He is a good person and I think the press treats him frankly very unfairly.”

Indeed they have, and now they will proudly display his scalp as another victory over this weekend, no doubt to the despair of some of Trump’s populist base, where Bannon is popular.

Bannon was a key driver of the idea of “draining the swamp” as well as the “America First” brand of economic nationalism that Trump has touted to make the nation prosperous again.

His voice and counsel to the president will likely be missed, though hopefully he will find a way to continue pressing forward with the agenda from outside the White House, where he won’t be constantly butting heads in conflict with insiders opposed to the things he and Trump wanted to accomplish.

Please share this on Facebook and Twitter to let everyone know that Steve Bannon has reportedly resigned from Trump’s White House.