Red Sox owner John Henry wants to rename Yawkey Way due to its supposedly racist past, following suit with the Left’s agenda to erase history. Yawkey Way is an iconic street outside of Fenway Park, named after the the allegedly racist Red Sox manager Tom Yawkey.



The far Left practice of tearing down historical monuments to erase history has been popular as of late, and has now spread to the Boston Red Sox.

Via the New York Post:

Henry told the Boston Herald he’s ready to lead the charge for renaming Yawkey Way, the famous street outside Fenway Park, as a renewed light is placed on monuments and their inspirations around the country. “The Red Sox don’t control the naming or renaming of streets,” Henry told the newspaper. “But for me, personally, the street name has always been a consistent reminder that it is our job to ensure the Red Sox are not just multi-cultural, but stand for as many of the right things in our community as we can — particularly in our African-American community and in the Dominican community that has embraced us so fully. The Red Sox Foundation and other organizations the Sox created such as Home Base have accomplished a lot over the last 15 years, but I am still haunted by what went on here a long time before we arrived.” Tom Yawkey owned the Red Sox from 1933-76. His franchise was the last in the league to welcome a black player to its roster, a full 12 years after Jackie Robinson first suited up for the Dodgers.

The Red Sox have been the subject of a more recent racial scandal. Orioles Adam Jones accused Red Sox fans of calling him a racial slur earlier this season, which reignited a heated debate about racism in the city of Boston.

Henry told the Herald he would be in favor of renaming the street to David Ortiz Way or Big Papi Way. Part of Yawkey Way was renamed David Ortiz Drive in June. “We ought to be able to lead the effort and if others in the community favor a change, we would welcome it — particularly in light of the country’s current leadership stance with regard to intolerance,” Henry said.

The Yawkey Foundation responded to John Henry’s proposal by insisting that the family’s philanthropy not be associated with the alleged racism of Tom Yawkey. “Jean and Tom Yawkey’s philanthropy has always been color blind,”.