A tweet from the white supremacist who organized the Charlottesville, Va., “Unite the Right” rally insulted the protester who was killed in the domestic terrorism attack at the event, saying late Friday night that her death was “payback” because communists killed people throughout history.

The Tweet read: “Heather Heyer was a fat, disgusting Communist. Communists have killed 94 million. Looks like it was payback time.”

The LA Times reported the tweet linked to a story on neo-Nazi website, the Daily Stormer, that also insulted Heyer in crude terms and rejoiced in her death. Some have rejoiced in her death while promising future violence.

Kessler’s tweet was surprisingly denounced from other white supremacists, who quickly distanced themselves from him.

By Saturday morning, the tweet had been deleted from Kessler’s account, which initially claimed he’d been hacked but then backtracked and said he’d been on a mixture of drugs. He was apologetic after the negative responses from leaders among the white supremacist movement.

“I repudiate the heinous tweet that was sent from my account last night. I’ve been under a crushing amount of stress & death threats,” the tweet stated. “I’m taking ambien, xanax and I had been drinking last night. I sometimes wake up having done strange things I can’t remember.”

Kessler’s tweets then were switched to “private” mode before his account was deleted entirely, said the Times.

Another far-right figure who attended the event, Tim Gionet, who goes by the name Baked Alaska, also criticized the remarks.

“Assuming this is a real tweet and his account was not hacked, I will no longer attend or cover events put on by Jason Kessler,” tweeted rally attendee James Allsup. “Very gross.”

“Why. Would You. Tweet This,” another popular far-right account, @FaustianNation, tweeted at Kessler. “This tweet makes it impossible to defend you, and now the entire rally as you were the main organizer.”

Adding to the confusion, a user purporting to be Daily Stormer staffer Andrew “Weev” Auernheimer claimed on the social media service Gab that he hacked Kessler’s account, though his claim could not be confirmed.

Auernheimer had his own ax to grind: He posted his suspicions that other white nationalist organizers, including Spencer, had sought to block a neo-Nazi contingent with the Daily Stormer from attending the event.

White nationalists and others who attended the event have been subject to an intense public crackdown after last weekend’s rally ended with brawls and Heyer’s death.