New Jersey Governor Chris Christie has long stumped for Donald Trump, quickly becoming a shill for the businessman’s presidential campaign following the dissolution of his own. He appeared on MSNBC this Tuesday to try and defend Donald Trump Jr.’s recently revealed 2016 meeting with Kremlin-connected lawyer Natalia Veselnitskaya, and it did not go well for him.

Host Nicolle Wallace pressed Christie over whether or not something that is at the very least legally questionable had taken place at Trump Jr.’s meeting with the Russian lawyer, but he initially wouldn’t even admit that such was a possibility.

He instead opted to insist over and over again that Trump Jr. and the rest of those involved in this scandal should be given the benefit of the doubt until the investigation is complete. What he did, however, is completely ignore that while yes, the investigation still must run its course, there is every indication that something illegal happened in that 2016 meeting with Veselnitskaya.

Such is revealed in the emails that Donald Trump Jr. himself posted to Twitter, in which he tells someone helping set up the meeting that he “loves” the idea of dirt on Clinton from the Russian government.

Wallace pointed to the campaign finance law that prohibits accepting contributions from foreign governments in her takedown of the Trump Jr. meeting, explaining that it’s not just about money, but also information.

‘When I worked on campaigns, [campaign finance law] also meant that if you get a call from Australia, or the U.K., or the U.A.E., or Russia, and they want to give you information about an opponent, that is strictly out of bounds…. you go to the campaign counsel, or you go to the FBI.’

Even still, Christie just repeated the same idea over again, telling Wallace of the question of whether or not something illegal took place:

“You know why?” Christie finished smugly, speaking of his refusal to characterize the meeting as possibly against the law, “Because I wasn’t in the meeting!”

Check it out below.

Wallace went on to press Christie over whether or not Jared Kushner, and, by extension, Paul Manafort had personally done something wrong. She got him to agree with the observation that those men both did something wrong in at least not alerting the campaign’s legal counsel about their impending meeting, and you can check out that part of the interview below.

Featured Image via Screenshot from the Video.