Senator Bob Corker (R-TN) has heaped stern criticism on President Trump recently. After Trump accused Corker of blocking Republican’s efforts on tax reform, it ignited a heated exchange between the two. Corker was asked if he should have backed Trump’s presidential campaign and he responded that he “would not do that again.”

Now, it seems that it is not off the table for Corker to run against Trump in the 2020 election. According to the Knox News:

‘Corker, along with U.S. Sen. Lamar Alexander and Gov. Bill Haslam, fielded questions after the 64th annual Governor’s Conference on Economic and Community Development. ‘But it was Corker who received much of the attention after his most recent online tussles with the president and his announcement in late September that he would not seek re-election.’

Corker is not seeking a third term in the Senate, but on Friday, he said that it is “way, way too early” to make any decisions concerning whether he or any other Republican should run in hopes of defeating Trump. Corker responded to questions about the 2020 election, saying:

‘So the only thing that I’m thinking about right now over the next 14 months truly is doing the best job I can as a Senator. And I think if you even begin thinking those things everything you do becomes viewed through a different lenses. ‘You know, I don’t know what I’m doing next Sunday.’

Corker also questioned whether Trump would even run for a second term. He didn’t comment on anything else about the president, but did say that he doesn’t make decisions based on what it will do to his poll numbers. Corker said:

‘I knew that when I began this process (of criticizing Trump) that it would take a toll on poll numbers, but look, we’re elected to do what we feel is right and that’s what I’ve been doing and that’s what I’ll continue to do.’

Corker may not want to admit it, but a Middle Tennessee State University Poll shows that his approval ratings are down in Tennessee since his conflict with Trump. The latest poll found that 41 percent of people disapprove of Corker, which was 14 points higher than a poll that released earlier this year.

Watch Corker on the video below, fromCNN.