Over the weekend, dozens of people were injured and three were killed during a white supremacist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia. People on both sides of the political spectrum strongly denounced the event, and they doubled down on their condemnation as rally-goers became increasingly more violent.

With the brutality that took place during the rally plastered all over the news, it’s not surprising that, on Monday, hotels in the Washington, D.C. area were not eager to open their doors to white nationalist Richard Spencer, who was trying to find a venue for a private press conference.

According to BuzzFeed, prior to Monday’s conference, two different D.C. hotels canceled on Spencer, a well-known alt-right leader who participated in the Charlottesville rally. Spencer ultimately had to hold his conference in an Alexandria, Virginia apartment where he works and lives part-time.

Spencer initially planned to hold the conference at 3 p.m. at the Sofitel Hotel in downtown D.C. He only revealed the location of the first conference to people who submitted a request to attend.

However, less than two hours before the event was set to begin, Spencer announced that the event had been canceled after someone leaked its location.

He then tried to move the conference to the Willard Hotel, but that plan was leaked as well, and the event was canceled after the hotel was bombarded with tweets from people who opposed Spencer holding the conference there.

Spencer eventually told attendees to report to the Alexandria location, promising to have “security personnel who will escort you safely to our location.”

During the conference, Spencer addressed a group of about 20 reporters and camera operators. He was joined by another rally participant, Nathan Damigo, who is the founder of the white supremacy group, Identity Evropa.

Spencer, who has denied being involved in the Charlottesville rally’s organization, despite having his face featured on the event’s fliers, told reporters that he “absolutely” does not have blood on his hands after the rally.

Spencer also denied knowing James Fields, the white supremacist who ran down a group of counter-protesters with his car and killed one, 32-year-old Heather Heyer.

Spencer said he would condemn Fields “if he engaged in that kind of malicious violence intentionally” and would “get rid of anyone that thinks that that’s okay.”

However, he then went on to say he believes “there’s a very good chance” that Fields might not be guilty of murder. He suggested that Fields may have been “extremely scared” because a video from the scene shows his car being hit with a bat before he drove directly into the crowd.

As if his excuses for Fields weren’t bad enough, Spencer also called on President Trump to denounce Antifa, a group of anti-fascist protesters, and the Virginia police, whom he blames for not better controlling the event. He then called Trump’s Monday statement against white supremacy “vapid nonsense.”

It’s not as if Spencer was particularly credible before the conference, but he’s likely lost what little credibility he did have after today. Moving forward, it looks like it’s going to be even harder for him to find venues for future conferences.

Featured image via Astrid Riecken For The Washington Post via Getty Images.