In the last few weeks, news about the special investigation into the Trump campaign’s ties to Russia has taken a backseat to things like the president’s pardon of former Maricopa County sheriff Joe Arpaio and his less-than helpful message to victims of Hurricane Harvey. While some people seem to have forgotten about the allegations against Trump and members of his campaign staff, special counsel Robert Mueller has not.

In fact, Mueller has been busy over the last few days issuing subpoenas to people tied to former Trump campaign manager Paul Manafort. On Tuesday, CNN revealed that Mueller had issued subpoenas for one of Manafort’s former lawyers, Melissa Laurenza, and his current spokesman, Jason Maloni.

CNN noted that these subpoenas are an “aggressive tactic that suggests an effort to add pressure” on Manafort.

U.S. officials who have been briefed on Mueller’s investigation told CNN that Manafort, whose home was raided by the FBI earlier this month, is currently under investigation for possible tax and financial crimes. The allegations he’s facing are primarily centered around his political work in Ukraine.

At this time, it’s not clear what information Mueller and his investigators believe Laurenza and Maloni have about Manafort. The fact that a subpoena has been issued to Laurenza, an attorney with the firm Akin Gump, at all is noteworthy, though, as it raises potential attorney-client privilege issues.

It’s also interesting that Laurenza is the only one of Manafort’s former lawyers to be subpoenaed.

The news about the subpoenas for Laurenza and Maloni came shortly after it was revealed that Mueller has also issued grand jury subpoenas for several public relations executives who worked on an international campaign that Manafort organized that ran between 2012 and 2014.

In addition to the allegations of tax and financial crimes, Manafort has also been under scrutiny recently for his involvement in the meeting Donald Trump Jr. had last summer with a Russian lawyer who promised him compromising information about Hillary Clinton.

In July, the Senate Judiciary Committee subpoenaed Manafort and requested that he testify during a hearing on foreign lobbyist registration and the Trump dossier. That subpoena was eventually dropped and the committee settled for interviews and documents instead.

Since the news broke about the latest subpoenas, a number of people have responded on Twitter and made it clear that they’re ready to see Manafort taken down.