America isn’t the greatest country in the world, an opinion New York Daily News senior justice writer Shaun King tried to pass off as fact in his latest piece.

“The United States of America is the Brooklyn Nets. We are not the best country in the world. This is not my opinion. These are the facts. … And in every demonstrable category, our country is coming up very, very short,” King wrote earlier this week.

King tried to position a subjective statement, “America is not the greatest country,” as an objective fact by examining flaws in our country’s criminal justice and healthcare system, as well as poverty and income inequality. The only problem, though, is that King’s evidence is heavily flawed and doesn’t really provide an accurate picture of what’s going on in America.

Let’s take a closer look at the issues in King’s “Here’s why the United States is not the best country in the world.”

King first examines America’s “criminal justice nightmare” and how America incarcerates more people than any other country in the world, with King taking particular issue with the amount of black men incarcerated in the U.S.

While the United States does have an incredibly high incarceration rate, there are other possible explanations for why black man are jailed at such high rates. The higher rate of black crime could explain it, something King does not mention. King’s comparison of the United States to South Africa is also a little dubious: Politifact said the claim “appeared” to be true based on “known evidence.” They also noted that direct numbers on the incarceration rate of South Africa during the time are “elusive.”

King also cites America’s death penalty as why it can’t be great, noting that Mexico and the EU have ended executions.

It’s hard to take King’s claim seriously when he holds Mexico up as a paragon of human rights. While it’s true that Mexico banned the death penalty, it means little in light of the rampant human rights violations in the country, like citizen torture, extrajudicial killings and the slaughter of 124 crime reporters from 2000-2016.

As for the European Union, Sweden canceled an up-coming music festival after a slew of sexual assault reports.

King then turns to law enforcement officers in America, saying they have performed the worst “crimes against humanity” in the world.

While American cops have committed some heinous crimes, positioning them as the worst in the world is a statement that doesn’t hold up. Brazilian police officers killed 11,000 people from 2008 to 2013; meanwhile, American police officers fatally shot 11,000 citizens over the course of thirty years. Mexican police officers allegedly killed 16 unarmed protesters who were kneeling and had their hands up in 2014.

King cites healthcare and the lack of health insurance as further proof that America cannot be the best country.

King leaves out a key fact out in his 22 million figure — the Congressional Budget Office reveals that approximately 10 million of those 22 million would not have healthcare due to personal choice.

King addresses the “income inequality” problem in America, claiming that a country that has such a high rate of child poverty it cannot possibly be considered great.

What King fails to mention is that the measure of poverty is completely relative. UNICEF marks the poverty level of each country as 60 percent below the nation’s median income. It’s hard to compare U.S. child poverty with other countries when the poverty level is different for each. Also, the report notes that an income of $31,000 (the U.S poverty level) places a person in the richest 1.23 percent of the world’s population.

King turns to the minimum wage, complaining that as the rich are getting richer, it’s the everyday American who is just trying to fight to make a livable wage.

There’s been a lot of debate as to whether raising the minimum wage actually helps lift people out of poverty. A June study demonstrated that Seattle’s $13 minimum wage actually hurt employees — some lost their jobs and those who still had a job had their hours cut. It’s also worth noting most minimum wage recipients are from the ages of 16-24.

And for those who believe that America is the greatest nation in the world? King explains their understanding of greatness is probably motivated by greed or white supremacy.

“If it is your opinion is that the United States is the greatest nation in the world, your definition of greatness is likely skewed by blind patriotism, greed or white supremacy,” King wrote.

Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact [email protected].