GOP Traitors Trying to Find a 2020 Primary Challenger to Run Against Trump

GOP Traitors Trying to Find a 2020 Primary Challenger to Run Against Trump

While Americans are overwhelmingly happy with their “America First” President and the job he’s doing, there are a few “Republicans” who aren’t; these are the globalist shills and establishment elites.

These career politicians are furious that America elected an outsider, as President Trump is not part of their “elite club” of DC “swamp creatures” and is ending their “free ride” more each day.

Two of these treacherous GOP elites, Jeff Flake and Susan Collins, both recently played their role in undermining Trump (and screwing the American people) by helping to kill the bill which would have repealed Obamacare.

Their actions have caused all of America to suffer, while conveniently, the two traitors enjoy their “Cadillac” healthcare, and are not forced to be part of the disastrous Obamacare policy.

Now, these two backstabbing traitors to America are openly discussing finding a nominee among the Republican Party to run against President Trump in the 2020 Primary Election; as if that’s going to happen!

These losers must be delusional, who are they planning to run, John McCain or Lindsey Graham?

What a pathetic joke these bitter, disenfranchised “Republican” traitors have become.

They’re a national embarrassment, and need to be voted out of office immediately.

Several high-profile moderate Republicans have begun publicly speculating about the possibility that President Trump could face a primary challenger when he seeks re-election in 2020.

The latest Republican to do so is U.S. Sen. Jeff Flake of Arizona. Trump and Flake have recently exchanged words, with the president saying he is “not a fan of” Flake.

During an interview Wednesday on Georgia Public Broadcasting, Flake said Trump seems to be “inviting” a primary challenge.

“I think he could govern in a way that he wouldn’t,” Flake said. “But, I think that the way that — the direction he’s headed right now, just kind of drilling down on the base rather than trying to expand the base — I think he’s inviting [a challenge].”