According to new disclosure forms, George Soros’s advocacy arm is ramping up its lobbying efforts this year to oppose laws that oppose Soros’ interests.

What else can you expect from the shadowy “puppet master” who seems to loom over every shady deal, as well as the violent protests and increasingly hostile attitude from the left?

Soros fancies himself a god, literally, and he hardly bothers to hide the fact that his corruption stretches far and wide.

This is a man who is intent on destroying the West with his mass-immigration, open borders policies; he is pure evil, and is dedicated to ruining everything about America and Europe.

The deep-pocketed Democratic financier increased lobbying expenditures on a range of foreign issues, including efforts to oppose laws described as a direct attack on his funding of non-governmental organizations (NGOs) in his native country of Hungary.

The Open Society Policy Center, a D.C.-based nonprofit that focuses on advocacy efforts and is a separate entity from the Soros grant making Open Society Foundations, has spent nearly as much on lobbying in the first half of 2017 as the group did in the entirety of 2016.

The Open Society Policy Center reported spending $4.6 million in the first and second quarters, which runs from Jan. 1 to June 30, according its disclosure forms filed to the House of Representatives and the Senate.

The group has three in-house lobbyists who lobby the U.S. Senate, House of Representatives, National Security Council, the Department of Defense, and the Department of State.

Soros drastically extended the policy scope of his lobbying efforts as the year progressed, including to issues that have been seen as a direct strike against the Hungarian-born billionaire.

From January to March, Soros’s group lobbied on three issues. From April to June, the group lobbied17 different issues, including the Bill on Foreign Funded Organizations in Hungary (LexNGo), Hungary’s crack down on foreign-funded organizations in the country.

Hungary’s parliament approved the law that targets foreign-funded organizations in June, which they have said “can threaten the country’s political and economic interests and interfere with the functioning of its institutions,” according to text of the law.