Donald Trump's ally Roger Stone says he won't ever reveal who helped him communicate with WikiLeaks because he has no intention of burning his sources.

Stone has previously claimed a source tipped him off that WikiLeaks had dirt on Hillary Clinton before damaging material that had been hacked by Russian intelligence was leaked prior to the election.

He told Yahoo News that he would not reveal the identity of the person who gave him the information from WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange - even if questioned by Congress.

'I'm just as much a journalist as you are, my friend... I have no intention of burning a source,' he told reporter Michael Isikoff.

Stone, who worked as an adviser during Trump's election campaign, said the source was a mutual friend of his and Assange. He said he had dinner with the person in New York last year when they revealed WikiLeaks had a cache of material on Clinton.

Both the Democratic National Committee and John Podesta were hacked and the content of those emails was released by Wikileaks.

Last fall, U.S. intelligence agencies accused Russia of trying to interfere in the 2016 election, blaming the Kremlin for the email account hacks, saying in January that the aim was to try and help Trump win the election over Clinton.

Stone has offered to 'fully cooperate' and testify during the House and Senate intelligence committees' investigation into whether Russian interfered with the 2016 presidential election.

But in addition to not revealing the source behind the WikiLeaks document dump, Stone has also said he would refuse to answer questions about his communication with Trump.

'I'm not going to disclose individual conversations with the president or communications with him,' he told Yahoo News.

Stone is a stout supporter and confidant of Trump and admitted to speaking to the president recently, but insisted their conversations were not about Russia.

The Republican political operative was due to attend the opening of his civil defamation trial in New York City this week.

His lawyer said he was didn't have the time though because he is so busy preparing for the possible grilling by the intelligence committee about Russian hacking.

He is being sued over a flyer sent to 150,000 New York households during the state's 2010 election that called the Libertarian Party candidate for governor, Warren Redlich, a 'sick twisted pervert.'