President Donald Trump took his wife Melania out on the town Thursday evening in Paris, making the most of their brief stay in the City of Lights with a dinner at the Eiffel Tower.

The Trumps are dining tonight at Le Jules Verne, on the second floor of the famous French monument. They're the guests of Brigitte and Emmanuel Macron, the first lady and president of France.

Donald Trump seated himself next to Brigitte Macron, with whom he'd shared an uncomfortable handshake with earlier in the day that lingered on a little too long -and in which she appeared to be trying to get him to let go.

He'd also told France's 64-year-old first lady in remarks that were caught on tape: 'You know, you're in such good shape.'

The compliment was made in front of her husband, the 39-year-old French president, and Trump, 71, repeated it to him before turning back to Mme Macron and saying to her: 'Beautiful.'

A French official Facebook live stream captured the interaction. What was not caught was Melania Trump's reaction, as her back was to the camera.

However, the American first lady, 47,  seemed to move closer to Mme Macron and put her hand around her protectively as Trump spoke to her.

The awkward exchange came after Macron her husband welcomed Donald and Melania to Paris on the eve of Bastille Day.

Trump kissed Mme Macron Parisian-style, once on each cheek, before taking both her hands for a prolonged grip, in which he appeared to jerk her left arm towards him as she appeared to be struggling to get him to let go.

It was an off-script start to a carefully-choreographed visit to Paris which on Friday will see Trump and Macron together for the Bastille Day celebrations, as well the couple dining together on Thursday evening at the Eiffel Tower.

Not to be outdone, Macron grazed his wife's butt in front of reporters during a tour of Les Invalides with the Trumps later.

By early evening the two men acted like old pals, laughing and smiling their way through a bilateral meeting at Elysee Palace. They made a concerted effort not to criticize each other, either, during a joint presser.

Their wives were just as chummy during a tour of Notre Dame cathedral and a boat ride down the Seine.

After a brief break from the festivities to refresh before dinner, they were back together again.

In a nod to the national flags of France and the United States, Melania Trump showed up to dinner in a red, white and blue dress.

Mme Macron wore a black and white print for the occasion.

Their husbands donned the same black suits they had earlier in the day, Trump in a thick blue tie and Macron in a skinny black one.

Le Jules Verne restaurant in Paris is one of the poshest places to have dinner.  Famed French chef Alain Ducasse has been operating out of the hot spot since 2007. The Michelin-approved restaurant describes its offerings as 'the best of French classics reinterpreted with a contemporary flair.'

'Taste, above anything else. Generosity and pleasure. This is how to describe the Jules Verne cuisine,' it says.

The decadence comes at a high price: 190€ for five plates and 230€ for six.

Trump, who's a billionaire, and his wife splurged and were served four small plates and two desserts each - not that they were paying.

According to the US embassy, they dine on a 'selection of pate; Tomato, Eggplant, Zuccchini; Dover sole, spinach, Hollandaise; Filet of beef, brioche with foie, soufflé potato, truffle sauce; Warm strawberry w/ yogurt sorbet; and Hot Chocolate soufflé with chocolate ice cream.'

Trump kissed Mme Macron Parisian-style, once on each cheek, before taking both her hands for a prolonged grip, in which he appeared to jerk her left arm towards him as she appeared to be struggling to get him to let go.

It was an off-script start to a carefully-choreographed visit to Paris which on Friday will see Trump and Macron together for the Bastille Day celebrations, as well the couple dining together on Thursday evening at the Eiffel Tower.

Not to be outdone, Macron grazed his wife's butt in front of reporters during a tour of Les Invalides with the Trumps later.

By early evening the two men acted like old pals, laughing and smiling their way through a bilateral meeting at Elysee Palace. They made a concerted effort not to criticize each other, either, during a joint presser.

Their wives were just as chummy during a tour of Notre Dame cathedral and a boat ride down the Seine.