WASHINGTON — President Trump announced Thursday he's pulling the U.S. out of the Paris Climate Accord, dealing a blow to international hopes of fighting climate change and potentially seriously damaging America's diplomatic standing around the world.

Trump's decision leaves the U.S. as the only major country that won't be part of the 195-country international accord — and just one of three worldwide. The only other two countries are war-torn Syria and Nicaragua, which opposed the deal because it didn't go far enough to control global warming.

"In order to fulfill my solemn duty to protect America and its citizens, the United states will withdraw from the Paris Climate Accord," Trump announced from the Rose Garden of the White House Thursday afternoon.

The move nixes one of the Obama administration's largest international achievements, and was highly controversial amongst Trump's own advisers. Trump long promised to pull out of the Paris agreement on the campaign trail, but a number of his own top advisers disagreed.

N.Y. unites with Calif. and Wash. to honor Paris climate deal

Ivanka Trump, Jared Kushner, Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and National Economic Council Director Gary Cohn all argued for Trump to leave the U.S. in the agreement, while White House chief strategist Steve Bannon and Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt led the fight to withdraw.

"By exiting, you're fulfilling yet one more campaign promise to the American people," Pruitt gushed to Trump at the Rose Garden ceremony. "America finally has a leader who answers only to the people, not to the special interests who have had their way for far too long."

Trump's decision, which will take four years to execute, is a major setback for international efforts to fight climate change. It could lead other countries to reconsider their own role in the agreement, and remove the U.S. from a leadership role in limiting global warming and its worldwide impacts.

“I believe he made a mistake for the future of the planet,” said French President Emmanuel Macron.

Sobering numbers show what we have to fear from climate change

In his most direct criticism of his successor to date, former President Barack Obama lamented Trump's decision, but expressed hope that a number of states and businesses would opt into the agreement.

"Even in the absence of American leadership; even as this Administration joins a small handful of nations that reject the future; I'm confident that our states, cities and businesses will step up and do even more to lead the way, and help protect for future generations the one planet we've got," Obama said in a statement.

Trump painted the decision as part of his "America first" agenda, saying he was elected to represent "Pittsburgh, not Paris."

Pittsburgh Mayor Bill Peduto (D) was quick to rebuke his decision — and noted that 80% of the city voted for Hillary Clinton. "It's now up to cities to lead," Peduto tweeted as Trump's long, rambling speech concluded.

Clinton weighed in on Twitter, calling the move, “A historic mistake. The world is moving forward together on climate change. Paris withdrawal leaves American workers & families behind.”

Trump’s Rose Garden remarks channeled Bannon's darkly nationalist rhetoric as he bashed "global activists that have long sought to gain wealth at America's expense" and claimed the move represented "a reassertion of America's sovereignty."

But many business leaders railed against the decision, including Tesla founder Elon Musk, Disney CEO Robert Iger, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg, Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey, and Google head Sundar Pichai.

Musk and Iger both announced they were stepping down from presidential councils they were on in protest.

Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankfein sent out his first-ever tweet about the decision, calling it “a setback for the environment and for the US’s leadership position in the world.”

Other politicians across the country concurred, promising their towns and states would fight global warming even as Trump abandons the effort.

"This administration is abdicating its leadership and taking a backseat to other countries in the global fight against climate change. New York State is committed to meeting the standards set forth in the Paris Accord regardless of Washington's irresponsible actions. We will not ignore the science and reality of climate change," Gov. Cuomo (D) said in a statement.

Cuomo pledged to sign an executive order to that effect, and along with California Gov. Jerry Brown (D) and Washington Gov. Jay Inslee (D) announced the creation of the United States Climate Alliance to help sustain and strengthen existing climate programs. The three states make up for one fifth of total U.S. gross domestic product, and their state-level rules have an outsized impact on how businesses operate in the U.S.

Mayor de Blasio said the city would do its part as well.

"President Trump can turn his back on the world, but the world cannot ignore the very real threat of climate change. This decision is an immoral assault on the public health, safety and security of everyone on this planet," de Blasio said. "On behalf of the people of New York City, and alongside mayors across the country, I am committing to honor the goals of the Paris agreement with an executive order in the coming days, so our city can remain a home for generations to come."

Trump promised to return to the negotiating table for a better deal — "We're getting out but we'll start to negotiate and we'll see if we can make a deal that's fair."

But other countries said they weren’t interested — France, Germany and Italy put out a joint statement saying they will not let the U.S. back into the deal or renegotiate the agreement.

The global consequences of Trump pulling out of Paris deal

"We firmly believe that the Paris Agreement cannot be renegotiated," the leaders of the three countries said, calling the deal "a cornerstone in the cooperation between our countries for effectively and timely tackling climate change."

Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) said he hoped that the President “reconsiders this awful decision.”

"President Trump's decision to withdraw from the Paris Climate Agreement is a devastating failure of historic proportions. Future generations will look back on President Trump's decision as one of the worst policy moves made in the 21st century because of the huge damage to our economy, our environment and our geopolitical standing," Schumer said. "I seriously hope the President reconsiders this awful decision."

Even some Republicans joined in the criticism.

"Climate change requires a global approach. I'm disappointed in the president's decision to withdraw from the Paris agreement," moderate Sen. Susan Collins (R-Maine) tweeted.