Alabama's Senate GOP primary is set to test the current strength of a Trump endorsement.

President Trump has tweeted his stamp of approval, several times, for sitting Alabama Sen. Luther Strange, who replaced Attorney General Jeff Sessions' in the upper chamber.

'Big day in Alabama. Vote for Luther Strange, he will be great!' Trump most recently wrote as the state's voters head to the polls Tuesday.

Taking the cue, Vice President Mike Pence also chimed in: 'Luther Strange has stood shoulder-to-shoulder with President @realDonaldTrump and is supporting our agenda,' Pence wrote mid-day Tuesday, using the hashtag #MAGA for 'Make America Great Again.'

The latest poll shows Strange 14 points behind challenger Roy Moore, the former Alabama supreme court chief justice, according to a Trafalgar Group survey.

Stranger things have happened, however, as Strange is up by 3 points in another poll, this one conducted by Emerson College, though that's within the 3.9 percent margin of error.

In the Emerson poll, Moore is technically in a 'statistical dead heat' with Strange, at 29 percent support.

The two men also face Rep. Mo Brooks, R-Ala., on the ballot.

If no candidate gets 50 percent of the vote, they'll be headed to a run-off scheduled for late September.

Because Alabama is a heavily red state, the Republican who wins the primary is extremely likely to breeze through the November general election.

While Moore, a candidate Trump is not supporting, is leading the race, that doesn't mean Moore is an anti-Trump candidate.

It's just the opposite as both he and Brooks, along with Strange, have courted voters by promising to further the president's agenda.

'I support President Trump's agenda of making America great again,' Moore said announcing his entry into the Senate race in May.

He added a caveat that 'we can only make America great again if we make America good,' blasting things like divorce, abortion and same-sex marriage.

Moore first came to prominence for refusing to take down a monument of the Ten Commandments and was stripped of his Alabama Supreme Court seat in 2003.

He rejoined the state's highest court in 2013, elected as chief justice, but was suspended from the post in 2016 for refusing to enforce the U.S. Supreme Court's ruling that opened the door for same-sex marriage nationally.

Speaking to the Christian conservatives in Alabama's primary electorate, which is supposed to be small, he said that God put Trump in the White House.

'God puts people in positions in positions he wants,' Moore said, according to the Associated Press. 'I believe he sent Donald Trump in there to do what Donald Trump can do.'

Moore and Brooks have also teamed up against Strange, who also has the backing of Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., to cast the incumbent – who only entered the Senate in February, being appointed by now former Alabama Gov. Robert Bentley – as a swamp creature.

'Luther Strange and Mitch McConnell and K Street lobbyists and special interest groups – what we call the swamp – are spending $5 to $10 million in attack ads that are false and deceptive and slanderous, and we don't have the money to respond to the attack ads, much less promote ourselves as we should be, or reminding voters of the corruption that surrounded the process by which Luther Strange was appointed to the United States Senate,' Brooks charged in an interview with CNN.

Brooks was referring to the fact that Bentley, who resigned in May after having an alleged affair with a top aide, picked Strange, the state's attorney general who had asked the state legislature to pause an impeachment investigation into the now ex-Republican governor.

The New York Times pointed out that there is no evidence to suggest that what Strange did was improper, but it has tainted his reputation with the state's voters.

On an appearance on Fox Business Network Tuesday, Strange called Brooks' attempt to link him to McConnell and say he was part of the swamp 'a little bit desperate.'

Strange also went on Fox & Friends to plead his case Tuesday morning.

The sitting lawmaker expressed his disgust that an Obamacare repeal effort failed in the Senate, telling voters he 'absolutely' thought there was an opportunity to hold another health care reform vote.

Strange also said he thought Trump's endorsement would get him over the line – or, at least, prevent Moore from getting there first.

'Well, I hate to make predictions in elections,' he said, but did so anyway. 'I predict that President Trump's endorsement will be incredibly important because people want his agenda passed, I want his agenda passed and I couldn't be more honored he's given me his endorsement and full support.'

'I think that will make a difference today,' Strange said.