Yesterday, it was revealed that President Trump’s new Chief of Staff, John Kelly, had installed a new process to keep InfoWars and right-wing conspiracy theorists news away from the president’s wandering eyes.

But a source with knowledge of the inner workings of the Trump White House told Buzzfeed revealed the true identity of President Trump’s conspiracy news clipping service: The president’s oldest son, Donald Trump Jr.

“Don Jr. is a huge problem,” the source said, saying he passes questionable articles to the president. “He needs to be a galaxy away from that place.” “I would be fine if he never saw Infowars [the platform of deranged conspiracy-peddling demagogue Alex Jones] again,” said a source who has advised the administration on communications issues.

The White House claims that Trump Jr. is staying out of political and government issues in order to maintain his father’s business empire without conflict, but since he is serving as the president’s backdoor channel for conspiracy theories and extreme right propaganda, that conflict is entrenched.

It’s bad enough that two of Trump’s rapidly dwindling list of White House senior advisors come from his own family and have no real job qualifications, but at least we know that those advisors, Jared Kushner and Ivanka Trump, are government employees.

They at least made a show, flimsy though it may be, of the divestiture of Trump Organization assets to avoid financial conflict of interest. They also turned in a few security clearance forms, even if they might have committed felonious omissions on the forms.

Donald Jr. positioned himself as the frontman, clear of political influence, and now, he has shattered that facade in order to influence the President with the fictional ranting of Alex Jones, who plays a demented newsman on the internet.

President Trump pretended that retaining ownership of his businesses but giving operating control to his sons would remove his many personal financial conflicts of from United States policy. The Trump family’s charade however, has finally been exposed by this incident.

Americans should be deeply concerned that Donald Jr. has become the president’s unofficial advisor while simultaneously Trump’s business and shoveling right-wing propaganda into his father’s brain late at night while the official White House staff sleeps.

Add your name to millions demanding that Congress take action on the President’s crimes. IMPEACH DONALD TRUMP!