Late last night, the verified Twitter account for Senator Ted Cruz (R-TX) clicked “like” on a pornographic video clip on a Twitter profile called @SexuallPosts, an account which aggregates and shares hardcore films.

The endorsement was publicly visible, and screenshots soon went viral with the internet finding the entire debacle hilarious, especially given Cruz’s long history of pushing Republican “family values,” even going so far as to argue on behalf of a ban on dildos. Normally, it’s nobody’s business what an adult does legally in the privacy of their own home, but the hypocrisy is simply too much to ignore.

The Cruz team has called the incident a “staffing incident” and has not confirmed that Cruz himself was the person watching the porn. “We’re dealing with it internally but it was a mistake, it was not malicious conduct,” they added.

Now, the pornographic clip has been identified by HuffPost as a segment of Moms Bang Teens 20. Whether Cruz was a fan of the previous 19 films is still unclear.

Cory Chase, the adult actress starring in the film, responded to the scandal. “I didn’t like that he watched it for free. He pirated that video. He should have paid Reality Kings for a subscription,” she told HuffPost. She went on to speculate that Cruz may have been drawn to the conservative outfit she wore in the film. The clip centers around a stepmother, stepdaughter, and the stepdaughter’s boyfriend and a sexual encounter between all three of them.

Hufftpost adds that Chase was originally unaware of the viral incident because she is a Florida resident and Hurricane Irma has been sporadically interrupting her internet access.

“I hate that it happened when I can’t see it, but when I found out it was trending, it was one of those OMG moments,” she told Huffpost. What does she think about the fact that Cruz previously argued for a ban on sex toys? She’s not impressed.

“Most politicians are hypocrites,” she said. Well said, Ms. Chase.

Add your name to millions demanding that Congress take action on the President’s crimes. IMPEACH DONALD TRUMP!