Donald Trump wasn’t thinking about running for President in 1984, but his heart was in the right place for one young boy’s struggle with HIV and AIDS.     Ryan White was infected with HIV when he was only 13 years old. He had hemophilia, a blood-clotting disease that meant […]

In 2009 Golf legend Arnold Palmer invited some very special guests to tour his Arnold Palmer Hospital for Children and Winnie Palmer Hospital for Women & Babies last week. The 79-year-old was joined by Donald Trump, Chairman and CEO of the Trump Organization, and Stewart Rahr – President and CEO […]

Trump’s First 3 Transition Dream Team Members Are Female, Gay & Black. Liberals Are Screaming. Donald Trump is a brilliant man. His taking back of the White House for the American people against the world globalists proved that. And now liberals are having a freak out of epic proportions because Trump just picked his first three transition team members, and its brilliant. Trump was an […]

Starbucks made it their mission to hire 10,000 refugees in the wake of Trump’s exec. orders.  Liberals bowed down and praised Starbucks, as expected. Conservatives took action protesting Starbucks and succeeded. Starbucks has since seen a HUGE drop in stock prices as angry patriots revolt against their un american promise. Now in the […]

Intel Institute: Trump’s IQ is 156, Hillary’s is tiny, Obama’s is the worst in history Intelligence professors at a prominent think thank have weighed in: Barack Obama has the lowest IQ of any President in United States history, which explains why he has been such a failure, and why he endorsed fellow low IQ member Hillary Clinton.     The Report:   Donald Trump scored […]

Bikers For Trump Ride Again, This Time To DC In January For Inauguration Day     Bikers For Trump, the rough tumbling group of bikers who followed President Trump along the campaign trail ensuring his supporters safely made it into his rallies, will be riding one more time. This time it’s to Washington DC on Inauguration Day, to make sure that everything goes smoothly […]

Obama’s old rules of Mosques being off limits is off the table. President Trump authorized an air strike on a mosque in Mosul, Iraq, which has wiped out the entire remaining Iraqi ISIS leadership. This comes as the organization collapses all around itself. the US Air Force released the names on […]

VOTE NOW: Should the new FOX CEO fire Shep Smith for his outrageous shenanigans? Results of this poll will be emailed directly to the new FOX Ceo: The new CEO is shaking up FOX news, and he has been receiving calls and emails from people who want Shepherd Smith off the air, forever. Right after Hillary Clinton‘s big speech attacking Donald Trump and his links […]

Vote: Should Trump hang a cross in the White House after the Obamas leave? Vote now: Do you think it would be appropriate for Donald Trump to hang a cross in the White House to honor God, and to celebrate the Christian faith and let Americans know God is back?   Many are now saying Trump was actually prophesied in the Bible: (LINK) Watch: […]

Acid Attacks Skyrocket In London Where Muslim Migrants Are Acid attacks in Britain’s capital are soaring to new heights, new data reveals. A Freedom of Information request submitted by the Mirror shows that between 2011 and 2016, London had nearly 1,500 cases of the devastating crime, which burns the skin and leaves victims cowering from their injuries. In the […]