Experts responded with outrage as President Trump appeared to call on the rest of the country to unite with Nazis and white supremacists during his updated statement on Charlottesville.

Trump said, “And as I have said many times before: No matter the color of our skin, we all live under the same laws, we all salute the same great flag, and we are all made by the same almighty God. We must love each other, show affection for each other, and unite together in condemnation of hatred, bigotry, and violence. We must rediscover the bonds of love and loyalty that bring us together as Americans.”

Steven Goldstein, Executive Director of the Anne Frank Center for Mutual Respect responded to Trump in a statement provided to PoliticusUSA, “Though the President finally mentioned, after long, painful three days, the KKK, neo-Nazis and White Supremacists, again he insisted on saying ‘others,’ “And the President made it worse. He said we should all unite, but there’s no way on God’s earth will we ever unite with Nazis. That is not what the Greatest Generation fought and died for. Finally, what planet has the President been living on when he just said we all salute the same flag? We don’t salute the Nazi flag as the White Supremacists in Charlottesville do. He is delusional.”

The Anne Frank Center was correct. It was easy to miss at first pass, but the President did, in fact, seem to suggest that America should unite with Nazis and racists and we should all behave together as Americans. While did say that we all should unite to condemn, hatred, bigotry, and violence, he didn’t say that Nazism has no place in America. In fact, Nazis are never going to stand with people of other races and faiths under the American flag.

Trump called Nazis and the KKK repugnant, but he never rejected the idea that these people aren’t and shouldn’t be part of the fabric of our country.

Donald Trump condemned racism, bigotry, and violence, but instead of urging that we build a stronger more inclusive society, the President suggested that America unify with racists and become one big country of Trump worship.