Bangalore. As CAC continues to search for the next Indian coach, Kohli fans in the city threw stones at Anil Kumble circle. This was the biggest standoff the city had witnessed since the last Kaveri water riots, it is learnt by Faking News., Kohli fans in the city threw stones at Anil Kumble circle. This was the biggest standoff the city had witnessed since the last Kaveri water riots, it is learnt by Faking News.

“#KohliVSKumble is the biggest trending topic in the news channels, social media and Twitter. Though most of the social media is anything but social in this topic, the TV channels have tried to keep it as non-violent as possible. But, we, the fans of Kohli are as aggressive as our captain and are pelting away stones at Anil Kumble circle”, a die-hard Kohli fan and an avid stone pelter told Faking News.

“The entire country is supposed to chant Sachin…Sachin and nobody is supposed to even talk about Kohli now, leave alone Kumble. Such is our captain’s masterstroke, the whole nation is talking only about Kohli. We don’t know anything about killing two birds with one stone. Such a thing may not be possible unless the other bird is already very sick and about to die. However, Kohli hit two sixes in one ball. Kumble out and of course the other eternal debate is settled!”, he further added.

“These guys with a funny haircut and spunky attitude approached the circle and started throwing stones in the general direction of the board bearing the name ‘Anil Kumble Circle’. At first, we did not know what was going on. Only later we realised that ‘Love for Kohli’ and ‘Hate for Kumble’ was written on every stone that was thrown. We thought our local man Kumble will come one full circle as Indian coach. Looks like he may not even keep his name in the circle”, a policeman in the circle told a few curious reporters gathered in the area.

Meanwhile, the reporters covering the incident found out that there is no such man or woman known as a Kumble fan who would come forward to retaliate against the stone pelting. Such a thing never existed, the reporters claimed to Faking News.