This afternoon, President Donald Trump held a press conference in front of the White House with Jordan’s King Abdullah II. The conference focused on the Syrian Civil War and the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Jordan shares borders with Israel, Iraq, and Syria, which means many of the world’s great conflicts unfold on its doorstep.

King Abdullah was well-spoken and diplomatic, emphasizing Jordan’s gratitude for funds from the United States to help it support the millions of Syrian refugees it currently hosts – in particular now that Trump has made it clear that he will not accept Syrian refugees.

President Trump, for his part, was an abject embarrassment. While King Abdullah spoke in complete sentences, Trump babbled about President Obama’s failings like a toddler.

Demonstrating an astonishing lack of understanding of modern military tactics, Trump returned to his campaign-trail complaint that the Obama administration would “announce” planned offensives months in advance.

“I watched past administrations say we will attack at such and such a day at such and such an hour. I’m not saying I’m doing anything one way or the other. I like to think of myself as a very flexible person. I don’t have to have one specific way, and if the world changes, I go the same way,”

Trump refused to answer questions properly, pivoting to criticize President Obama’s historic nuclear peace accord with Iran and complaining about how he had been left with a “mess.”

When asked about how he would deal with Syria’s murderous dictator Bashar al-Assad, Trump had only this to say before cutting off the press conference short:

“You will see. They will have a message. You will see what the message is.”

After expressing his indignation about yesterday’s chemical attack in Syria that killed dozens of civilians, reporters pressed Trump on what he would do in response. Trump changed the topic to his upcoming meeting at Mar-a-Lago with Chinese President Xi Jinping and told the press that North Korea represents a big problem in the world. The King looked on dumbfounded.

Twitter was quickly filled with an outpouring of shame that America is represented by such an incompetent, bumbling idiot. Trump has lowered America’s standing in the world within weeks of taking office. It is painful to watch Trump blather on while a thoughtful, intelligent world leader looks on in dismay at who he now has to work with.

Once again, Twitter has expressed the sentiments we feel better than we could ourselves: