When an event of such magnitude as the Las Vegas massacre takes place, we know from the start that it will somehow permanently change our way of life. A key thing we learned from 9/11 is that these types of incidents initiate a premeditated political fallout, and as time goes by we are able to better perceive just how the event will be used to reshape society in favor of the control system.

After a major terror event, the establishment narrative is firmly set at the onset, typically within the first day. This was the case for 9/11, for the Boston Marathon Bombing, for the Orlando nightclub shooting, and now again for Las Vegas. Any subsequent information or viewpoints which run contrary to this narrative are buried in the political and social aftermath, regardless of any new relevant bits of evidence which may emerge.

If there is reason to suspect the official story doesn’t jibe with eyewitness testimony, for example, it simply will not be discussed in mainstream channels. The official narrative will remain in play while focus is shifted on to victim stories and on to discussion of how the government can best keep us safe from future atrocities.

Predictably, within the first 24 hours after the Las Vegas shooting, the narrative is firmly established, and as many independent reviewers of the evidence are pointing out multiple discrepancies and valid questions in the official story, many politicians and public figures are already are calling for increased gun control.

A renewed push for gun control is to be expected after an event like this, but in the case of Las Vegas, there appears to be another major agenda already in play. This time the emphasis is on increasing security in public places, including the introduction of metal detectors and body scanners in places where the American public would not previously have tolerated.

The very day after the shootings, Bloomberg news reported that metal detection was already being used at other hotels in Las Vegas. In an article entitled, ‘Guest Scanned at the Wynn in Glimpse of Las Vegas‘ Future, Christopher Palmeri writes:

Other news sources have followed up with various angles of the emerging debate on bringing scanning and metal detection to public venues in order to prevent lone gunmen from transport weapons into places where the public can be targeted by terror.  In an op-ed by Janet Eve Josselyn for HuffPo, the question is, ‘Do U.S. Hotels Need Metal Detectors?’

At first glance this may seem reasonable and rather innocuous, however there is an entire back story to this which isn’t being publicized. This story involves Michael Chertoff, former Secretary of Homeland Security, and his company The Chertoff Group, which is “a premier global advisory firm focused exclusively on the security and risk management sector.”

This agenda also involve OSI Systems, Inc., “an American company based in California that develops and markets security and inspection systems such as airport security X-ray machines and metal detectors, medical monitoring and anesthesia systems, and optoelectronic devices.”

There is, of course, billions of dollars to be made in ventures which require the public to adhere to governmental security regulations, and in the case of Las Vegas, expect to see a major push for a serious erosion of privacy and a serious increase in the authority of agencies like the Transportation Security Administration.

This angle of the fallout of Las Vegas is discussed in detail in the following video from Truthstream Media, and foretells of a strong new push to usurp the rights of Americans.

Isaac Davis is a staff writer for WakingTimes.com and OffgridOutpost.com Survival Tips blog. He is an outspoken advocate of liberty and of a voluntary society. He is an avid reader of history and passionate about becoming self-sufficient to break free of the control matrix. Follow him on Facebook, here.

This article (Las Vegas – Problem, Reaction and Now the Solution) was originally created and published by Waking Times and is published here under a Creative Commons license with attribution to Isaac Davis and WakingTimes.com. It may be re-posted freely with proper attribution, author bio, and this copyright statement.

Las Vegas – Problem, Reaction and Now the Solution was last modified: by