DENVER — If the Giants quit on Ben McAdoo, how will we know?

The resolve of the players to give all they have for their head coach cannot be gauged by the final score Sunday night against the Broncos at Sports Authority Field at Mile High.

The Giants got to 0-5 on merit, and now they are decimated — their offense in tatters with the season-ending injuries to Odell Beckham Jr. and Brandon Marshall and the absence of another top receiver, Sterling Shepard. Their defense, so shockingly shabby after the brilliance of 2016, has gone from ineffective to ill-equipped with the injury losses of Olivier Vernon and Jonathan Casillas, and the suspension of Dominique Rodgers-Cromartie.

The Giants arrived at the Rocky Mountains gasping for air before they ever hit the high altitude.

No, this is not a fair fight, the Giants staggering into one of the loudest and most difficult road venues in the NFL, facing a 3-1 team, well-rested coming off a bye. There is despair in the air around the Giants and their second-year head coach, and it is highly doubtful anything that transpires in the Mountain Time Zone will assuage the cloud that has overtaken this Giants season.

When told the “mess’’ was in reference to the Giants, the 23-year old safety did not offer any protest.

“It’s bad,’’ Collins said. “It’s bad luck. Definitely bad luck. You just got to fight through it. It’s gonna turn around sooner or later.’’

Is he sure about that?

It is hard to see the turnaround coming this week. Instead of Beckham, Marshall and Shepard (total of 1,359 NFL receptions) at wide receiver, the Giants will put Roger Lewis, Tavarres King, Travis Rudolph and Ed Eagan (total of 19 NFL receptions) on the field. Lewis, undrafted out of Bowling Green in his second season, suddenly vaulted from No. 4 receiver to No. 1.

“It’s kind of different,’’ Lewis said. “But I’m growing up and I’m ready to take the challenge.’’

There are challenges and there is what awaits this Backup Bunch. The Broncos have the NFL’s top-rated defense and boast the best cornerback tandem in the league in Aqib Talib and Chris Harris Jr., members of the “No Fly Zone.’’ The blanket coverage may not come into play if Eli Manning is flat on his back every play. The Giants will also go without injured center Weston Richburg, one of the steady players on an unsteady offensive line.

“It’s a great opportunity for a lot of the guys who probably didn’t think they would be playing at this point, and that part of it is exciting for them,’’ McAdoo said. “It’s exciting for us.’’

At 0-5 on the way to 0-6, excitement is in the eyes of the beholder. There has not been much to see with the 2017 Giants, other than abject failure.

This should be called Marquee Mismatch. Coach Ben McAdoo says containing Miller is “like trying to block a 250-pound sprinter.” At 6-foot-4 and 250 pounds, Miller is built smaller than a defensive end but bigger than a normal linebacker. His body is so flexible he does not give offensive linemen any target to hit. He will line up on both sides, looking to exploit whatever poor soul is across from him. Flowers does not have the speed to deal with this. Pugh is expected to again move to right tackle, as Bobby Hart gave up two sacks last week to Joey Bosa and will likely hit the bench. Might as well put out a “Help Wanted’’ sign.

Miller has four sacks and yet is not happy with his performance this season. He probably is harder on himself than the Giants will be on him. Asked if he is licking his chops to face this Giants offensive line, Miller said, “No. I lick my chops every week. It doesn’t matter who we’re playing. That’s my job. It doesn’t matter who they line up out there. I’m coming with it.’’

No Odell, no need to change: Broncos coach Vance Joseph admitted the temptation to overlook the winless Giants is a warning “that’s been discussed around here since Monday.’’ It has come to this for the Giants: Their only hope is if they aren’t taken seriously. The presence of Odell Beckham Jr. always gave the Giants a puncher’s chance, based on his game-breaking ability. Without him? Not so much. The Broncos can do what they do without a care in the world.

“Obviously if they had Odell Beckham, that’s a problem because he’s a special player,’’ Joseph said. “So, that would take some game planning to make sure he wouldn’t hurt us. But we’re a five-man rush, man-free team, so the structure won’t change. Obviously we have to adjust during the ball game, once we kind of figure out what they’re doing and how they’re attacking us. But as far as our defensive structure, it will not change.’’

Viral sensation gets his shot: Travis Rudolph was the leading receiver at Florida State in 2016 but was best known for an act of kindness after he ate lunch with an autistic middle school student and the boy’s mother expressed her gratitude on social media. Rudolph did not make the final cut-down with the Giants, but he was signed to the practice squad and this week was promoted to the active roster.

“I feel like I deserved it,’’ he said. He makes his NFL debut on Sunday. “I’m ready for it,’’ Rudolph said. “To finally have this opportunity, it’s something I’ve been asking for, praying for. My level of confidence is sky-high.’’

Big chance for little target: Ed Eagan is listed at 5-foot-11 and 183 pounds. The height listing is generous. He said he “felt horrible’’ seeing all the receivers get hurt, injuries that prompted his signing off the practice squad. He is a small slot receiver from Northwestern State in Louisiana who has had looks from the Cowboys, Browns and Bills. He could be the Giants’ kickoff returner vs. the Broncos. He says he draws inspiration from guys such as Julian Edelman.

“You have to prove yourself,’’ Eagan said. “Everyone who’s done great things has at one point been nobodies. I don’t think I’m a nobody.’’

Good counsel: One of the whispered criticisms of Ben McAdoo is that, as a young head coach, he wants to show he knows what he is doing, at the expense of seeking advice. He says he has heard from friends in the industry.

“Tough times come, tough times go,’’ McAdoo said. “Tough people last, and usually you hear from some other tough people when you’re going through these types of times. You hear from people who have gone through similar types of things and have found a way to rebound, or maybe have not found a way to rebound. But it’s good to hear from mentors and familiar voices and talk to people who can help you out a little bit.’’

Ben McAdoo says nobody is giving the Giants “a chance in hell’’ to win this game. There are always paths to victory, but they are narrow indeed for this injury-depleted, emotionally-scarred team. Looks like a Mile High whooping in front of a frenzied crowd and a national TV audience.