Conservative commentator Michael Reagan, the son of former president Ronald Reagan, defended Bill O’Reilly over claims that the recently fired Fox News host sexually harassed women. Reagan, a contributor to the conservative outlet Newsmax, shared posts on Facebook and Twitter insisting that if women wear “low cut dresses,” then men should consider suing “for sexual arousal.” He also responded to the allegation that O’Reilly called a black coworker “hot chocolate” and grunted while passing her desk by saying that it was a compliment. O’Reilly was booted from Fox News – with a handsome payout – after a long history of facing harassment allegations.

Asked to comment on his posts further, former president Reagan’s son argued that women “have long waited for the tide to change in their favor” so that they would be in a position where they “only need to lift a finger” and men they’re not comfortable with for whatever reason “start going away in a heartbeat.” “Equality issues and the whole political correctness thing is killing corporate America, political America, any and all Americas today,” Reagan told Internet portal MyDadWasAPresident.com. “Men are in a tight spot everywhere today because of the fact that no matter what we say, we’re targeted through the weapon that is so-called equality issues.”

He also opined that “that’s not fair” in the same way it’s “not fair to abuse women physically or in any other way.” “Just look at how much our society has mutated over the years,” Regan said. “Instead of evolving and moving forward, we’re now in a situation where more and more men are craving the companionship and relationships with other men in a homosexual fashion, and women are also doing the same thing. Similarly, what used to be considered compliments and terms of endearment towards the fairer sex has somehow, overnight, become insults and rude behavior. And the worst part is, it’s not the language that’s changed. It’s the people, these new generations tend to take everything to heart and very seriously. Maybe that’s why they’re all so uptight.”

“Nevertheless, we can’t leave it at that,” he continued. “At this point, men are nearly defenseless. However, women seem to forget that two can play at that game. I propose that every single man out there who suffers even the slightest injustice at the hands of a woman or several of them, kind of like what happened to my friend Bill O’Reilly, reacts immediately and counter-sues the women who have taken such false action against him.”

“What’s more, there’s a wide variety of bases on which one can sue a woman, but if we’re going to give them a taste of their own medicine, we should make sure to sue every single women in this country who has but one male coworker and still comes to work every day wearing short skirts or walks around the office with her breasts being too big. That’s cause enough for a lawsuit on the basis of sexual arousal right there. And if they come to work the next day buttoned up like a nun, we’ll add hypocrisy and falsely impersonating chastity to the charges. That’ll teach them to never mess with men again,” he concluded.