A new study published in the journal Neuropsychologia has shown that religious fundamentalism is, in part, the result of a functional impairment in a brain region known as the prefrontal cortex. The findings suggest that damage to particular areas of the prefrontal cortex indirectly promotes religious fundamentalism by diminishing cognitive flexibility and openness – a psychology term that describes a personality trait which involves dimensions like curiosity, creativity and open-mindedness. Religious fundamentalism refers to an ideology that emphasizes traditional religious texts and rituals and discourages progressive thinking about religion and social issues. Fundamentalist groups generally oppose anything that questions or challenges their beliefs of way of life.

In reaction to news about the study, televangelist and host of “The 700 Club” Pat Robertson argued that scientific studies such as this “need to be banned” and that “there are few notions as longstanding and righteous in the human existence such as religion.” On a recent edition of his show, the conservative host said that religion is “perfect” and science is “flawed,” because “the latter keeps reexamining and changing its position on every little thing.” “If you think about it, any and all things created by man are flawed in one way or another. Science is no different, as it was designed to comfort mankind and allow us to think we are the masters of our own existence. Some would even argue it was given to mankind by Lucifer, to deter us from having faith in God,” he said.

Robertson continued, “On the other hand, religion is something pure and divine, something that’s based on one’s soul and spirit and as such is something that can never be quantified. We were created on this earth to serve God and were given our bodily senses to help us survive. But, as all wretched things, we became greedy in our freedom and started using our senses to tell ourselves that we’re the on the top of the food chain because we’re the most intelligent. That was a mistake. Though, I have to say – while I do support scientific achievements up to a certain point, because they make our lives easier and make the modern world what it is – I must say that it, nevertheless, asks incomparably more questions than it provides answers. As such, it must be used carefully.”

“And since we’re used to exaggerating with everything, so too is the case with science. As you can see, the latest scientific study aims to make us believe that having faith in God is somehow a sign of brain damage. That is equally preposterous as same-sex marriage, at least in my book. This is the final piece of evidence that science has reached its final stage of perversion and is now completely aimed towards making us lose our faith. That is why I urge and plead President Donald Trump to criminalize these so-called scientific studies and save the people of this country from demise. We are being hunted and persecuted from all sides and this is just another way Lucifer has discovered he can take aim at our soul. Unless we somehow use science to prove the existence of the Devil himself – or at least a demon or two – we need to stop using science altogether. It’s either that or we’re looking at another Sodom and Gomorrah,” Robertson concluded.