Horse racing is a competition between two or more horses in which strength, speed and durability is put to the test. Dating back to ancient times and practiced in civilizations around the world, it has been one of the most popular sporting events since recorded history and before. Historians have found evidence of horse racing in Ancient Rome, Egypt and Babylon. It was even an event in the ancient Greek Olympics. Horse racing continued to remain a popular sport throughout time and was even referred to as the “Sport of Kings” among high British society.

Today, horse racing remains a popular event that can be enjoyed by people from all walks of life and also plays an important role in the economy as the gambling associated with it generates over $100 billion a year. It is an event that the whole family can attend together while taking in some fresh air, and is a lot less costly to attend than other professional sports such as basketball and soccer. Most racetracks offer free admission and some even allow you to bring your own food. Imagine getting to spend the evening outdoors with family and friends while watching these majestic animals perform at their top physical ability, and to add even more excitement to the mix, you have an opportunity to test your luck and gambling skills by betting on which horse you think will win.

Betting on horse races may seem simple enough, but there are a lot of factors that need to be taken into account. First of all, there are two different categories of wagers to pick from, the straight wager (which is usually recommended for beginners), and exotic wagers. The main difference between the two types of bets is that with the straight wagers you are only betting on one horse, and with the exotic wagers you can bet on multiple horses. If you are betting online, it’s important that you only bet with a reputable bookmaker so you get the best odds and results you can trust. For example, if you look up horse racing results today by William Hill, you know that you will get the most accurate information.

Now when it comes to picking the winning horse, you need a little of both, luck and skill. First thing you will need to do is to learn how to read the race day program. You will find a lot of useful information there than help you make smarter bets. If you have a horse in mind, do some research and find its history in the class it is racing in, its past performance on the surface type, and even its past experience with the jockey. Also, don’t forget to visit the paddock and watch your horse’s behavior, just like us, they have good and bad days.

Although reading all the books and internet tips on choosing the right horse can help, you never know when lady luck will strike, and that is what makes this sport so exciting.