We warned in late October 2016 before the 2016 election that the polls from the MSM were bogus.

We were right.

Ann Coulter warned in her book in 2003 that the far left main stream media always uses polls to push their agenda. Polls can be skewed by selecting an unreasonable sample size, by asking lead up questions or by selecting more of a sample population of one side of an issue to achieve a desired result.

The MSM skews polls to discourage potential voters from voting or to discredit and smear conservative politicians and has done it for years.

A good example of the media trying to shape a vote was in 1980. In a Gallup poll released on October 26th in 1980, two weeks before the election, Jimmy Carter was leading Ronald Reagan 47 – 39. Two weeks later Reagan won in such a landslide that Carter conceded before California was counted.

Another example of mainstream liberal media bias was in 1988. A Gallup Poll from July 26 showed Michael S. Dukakis leading George H. W. Bush by 17 points. Of course Bush went on to thump Dukakis in the general election in a landslide.

Before the 2016 election we pointed out that a number of polls showed Hillary Clinton leading Donald Trump by various margins. One poll reported by NBC/WSJ a few weeks before the election showed Hillary ahead by 11. However, that NBC/WSJ poll was .

We also noted that the Monmouth University poll was run by a Hillary Huckster who was caught manipulating a poll and then lied about it.

We also noted that took an average of  distorted polls to come up with their analysis of the 2016 race. Their efforts were a great example of the phrase – ‘garbage in – garbage out’.

The percentage of voters polled included 35% Democrat, 35% Independent and another 7% that are neither Democrat or Independent.  Only 23% of the poll participants identified themselves as Republican.

The poll included less than 25% Republicans.  What a crock.

When we looked at the polls being spread by the MSM on October 18th shortly before the 2016 election we stated they were biased.  We also stated: Let’s face it NOBODY likes Hillary and NOBODY trusts Hillary.

We also stated: Maybe the current polls are not just inaccurate – maybe they are dead wrong.

We were right then and we are right again.