President Trump answers questions about his response to rally in Charlottesville, Va., from the lobby of Trump Tower in Manhattan, Aug. 15, 2017. (Photo: Kevin Lamarque/Reuters)

In the aftermath of the attacks in Barcelona, Spain, Thursday and Charlottesville, Va., five days earlier, President Trump offered very different reactions.

His response to the attack in Spain, in which a van rammed a crowd at a popular tourist destination, killing at least 13 people and injuring 100 more, was swift and decisive.

Soon after Thursday’s attack, Trump sent a tweet denouncing the terror and offering “love” to Barcelona.

Shortly afterward, he followed up by suggesting his followers research a debunked story about U.S. Army Gen. John J. Pershing executing Muslims with bullets that had been dipped in pig’s blood.

The swift condemnation and attribution of blame was decidedly divergent from the president’s reaction to the events in Charlottesville, where a car driven by an alleged white supremacist rammed a group of counterprotesters, killing Heather Heyer, 32, and injuring 19 others.

In a tweet that came hours after violent clashes between white supremacists and counterprotesters, Trump initially shied away from calling out any one group.

Approximately forty minutes later, the president tweeted again.

At a signing event later in the day in Bedminster, N.J., Trump offered another take on the violence.

“We’re closely following the terrible events unfolding in Charlottesville, Va.,” Trump said. “We condemn in the strongest possible terms this egregious display of hatred, bigotry and violence, on many sides — on many sides. It’s been going on for a long time in our country.”

Trump’s choice to condemn “many sides” was widely derided as an inadequate response to the hate groups in Charlottesville and an attempt to equate them with the counterprotesters. Later on Saturday, Trump tweeted tributes to Heyer and two Virginia state troopers who died when the helicopter they were using to monitor the scene crashed.

As criticism over his initial response gathered steam, Trump was convinced by advisers to make a further statement on Monday from the White House. “Racism is evil,” Trump said, reading from a teleprompter. “And those who cause violence in its name are criminals and thugs, including the KKK, neo-Nazis, white supremacists and other hate groups that are repugnant to everything we hold dear as Americans.”

While his amended statement was applauded by many of his supporters, it ushered in new questions about why the president did not condemn those hate groups in the first place. As that criticism was amplified by the media, Trump returned to Twitter to vent his frustration.

That anger bubbled over at a press conference Tuesday at Trump Tower in New York City, during which the president returned to the rationale that blame for the Charlottesville violence was shared.

“I think there’s blame on both sides, and I have no doubt about it,” Trump said during a combative back and forth with reporters.