During his speech at the 36th Annual National Peace Officers’ Memorial Service outside the U.S. Capitol in Washington on Monday, President Trump honored all of  America’s police officers who have fallen in the line of duty, as well as their families.

However, he took a little extra time out for the son of one of those officers, a 6-year-old boy named Micah.

In a video that’s quickly gone viral, the president reached under the podium and flipped his personal cap to the young boy who lost his police officer father in a gun battle in Phoenix, Arizona, last year.

“And just to show you, by the way, how much I love our police, I said, oh, I’m going to need a hat because it’s so windy today,” Trump said in his remarks, holding up the hat.

“I said, when I got out of here, there’s no way I’m going to put on this hat. So we’ll leave off the hat. And this is for you, Micah. That’s for our beautiful Micah down there.”

Perhaps unsurprisingly, the gesture actually drew the ire of the left on social media, because of course it did.

OMG I can’t even, amirite?! I cahhhn’t! Wait, why can’t I even again?

Being angry at the 6-year-old son of a fallen police officer being recognized by the president is pretty much a cardinal symptom of late-stage Trump derangement syndrome. Perhaps the left had been triggered by the tone of the rest of President Trump’s remarks, where he had the temerity to (*gasp*) actually express his support for the men and women of law enforcement.

“To every child in America who has lost a mom or a dad in the line of duty, I want you to know your parents are American heroes — American heroes,” the president said.

“They died keeping us safe. They are the pride of our nation. And we will hold them in our hearts always and forever. Their sacrifice will never, ever be forgotten.”

Trump also told the audience that he wanted them “to know that my administration is determined — totally determined — to restore law and order and justice for all Americans, and we’re going to do it quickly.”

He also probably should have added a trigger warning before this part, too.

“I want you to know that patriotic Americans of all backgrounds truly support and love our police,” the president said.

“And a very sad thing is that many of today’s politicians don’t want to say that, don’t want to talk about that because it’s not politically correct or they think it might hurt them with the voters. I will say it and I will talk about it proudly.”

That’s something 6-year-old Micah found out in an epic way.

Please like and share on Facebook and Twitter if you support the men and women of law enforcement.