Staff at a local open plan office were left “shaken and upset” today, following an extreme case of workplace harassment that saw upper management leave a basket of healthy sugar-free muffins in the breakroom for staff to enjoy. Describing the incident as “a textbook case of workplace harassment” union representatives say that over five staff members were exposed to the stevia infused health-food snacks before realising to their horror that the treats were blueberry and bran muffins rather than the choc-chip cupcakes staff had expected on first glance.

Sources within the office have confirmed that this is not the first time such an incident has occurred, with a similar case having taken place at last month’s team meeting. Staff who attended the gathering report being served raisin laced biscuits by management, as well a Woolworths-bought chocolate cake served alongside a barely edible dairy-and-gluten-free pizza. “To be fair, I actually enjoyed the chocolate cake at first,” recalls one staff member Dave Johnson. “But as time went on I started to realise I actually like the idea of chocolate cake a lot more than I actually enjoy eating it. The worst part was I’d asked for an extra large slice, so I had to eat at least make a show of eating it so I wouldn’t look ungrateful. Eventually I managed to leave a third of it sitting on a paper-plate on the photocopier though, next to the twelve other unfinished plates that had piled up there.”

Representatives for the company have apologized for the oversight, and have pledged to put more care into future free lunches provided by the company. “From now on we’ll only be serving staff the most sugar and fat filled snacks money can buy,” said a spokesman this afternoon. “We’re guarantee they will enjoy the new treats we’ve got planned for next week, including green tea and grapefruit Mondays, microwave burrito Tuesdays, marzipan and carob cake Wednesdays, black jelly bean Thursdays, and best of all cooking-chocolate Friday!”

“We’ve also stocked the fridge with nothing but Diet Coke and Dr Pepper. Enjoy guys!”