Tragedy struck today and according to Cleveland Police, it may not be over with yet. A Facebook user by the name of “Stevie Steve” brutally murdered an elderly man live on Facebook. However, the police were able to correctly identify him as Steven Stephens and a manhunt is currently underway.

In the shocking video, you see Stephens driving down the street and says, “Found me somebody I’m going to kill, this guy right here, this old dude,” then stops his car. Stephens then walks up to the elderly man and begins to chat with him before pulling his weapon.

He then brutally shoots the man and leaves him to die on the streets of Cleveland.

**Warning** GRAPHIC CONTENT: This may be unsuitable for some viewers.

Cleveland Mayor Frank G. Jackson and Police Chief Calvin D. Williams held a press conference Sunday evening with the latest details.

“Steve Stephens killed an elderly gentleman. I personally give my condolences to the family of the victim,” Jackson said.

“We know who Steve Stephens is and he will be eventually caught. He need not to do anymore harm to any innocent people. Whatever concerns or problems that he’s having, we’re here to have a conversation,” the mayor said.

“We need Steve to turn himself in,” Williams said. “We want this to end with as much peace as we can bring to this right now. If that doesn’t happen, we have all our partners in on this and will look until we find him.”

It’s being claimed that MSM isn’t telling us that Stephens regularly visited the Islamic Center in Cleveland and that he is in fact a Muslim.

Stephens claimed in a Facebook post that he has killed 15 people and was continually posting until his Facebook was taken down. In his first Facebook post, Stephens claimed that he had killed 12 people and would not stop until his mother and another woman contacted him.

He then writes on his Facebook page ““I’m the #goodguy,”

Stephens then claims in another post that he has killed three more people and that they can be found in an abandoned home. However, the Cleveland police have only been able to confirm the one murder.

Cleveland Police wrote in a Facebook post that Steve Stephens is approximately 6’1 and weighs about 244 pounds. He has a bald head and a full beard. He was last seen wearing a dark blue and gray or a black striped polo shirt and was driving a white or cream-colored SUV.

Police Chief Calvin D. Williams currently said that there are no other victims and urges the public to come forward with any information. “We need to get Steve off the streets,” he said. “There’s no need for any more bloodshed.”

The police have issued this warning to the public that Stephens is “Armed and dangerous. If seen call 9-1-1. Do not approach”.

I cannot even begin to imagine what the victim’s family is going through. I pray that they are able to catch this monster soon before he is able to harm anyone else.

FOLLOW us on Facebook at Freedom Daily!