North Carolina-native Luke Combs was the second to last act at Route 91 Fest, and mass murderer Stephen Paddock began his act of terror from the 32nd floor of the Mandalay Bay hotel only minutes after his set ended. He also happens to be the only NRA-sponsored performer at the event. Vice News reports:

NRA Country sponsored Luke Combs as their “Featured Artist” for November, and he conducted a promotion with the gun lobby’s group, whose infamous insistence of absolute gun rights has long been the most feared voice in the Republican political universe.

Combs’ sponsorship is part of the NRA’s outreach to young people, who they desperately need to persuade that America’s hideous gun violence is normal in the face of every other civilized country in the world having sensible gun laws. The NRA’s website explains:

NRA Country is a celebration of American values. Respect. Honor. Freedom. It’s a lifestyle and a bond between the best and brightest in country music and hard-working Americans. NRA Country will be involved in causes that defend our values and it will empower our artist friends who promote these values to encourage our next generation of leaders.

Shamefully, Combs has posted multiple messages on social media about his own safety, yet steadfastly refuses to speak to his 700,000 social media followers about the lax gun laws that permit literally anyone off the street to buy high-volume magazines and assault-style rifles, which ultimately led to the mass murder of his fans at a show.

Luke Combs has taken to social media three times since the Las Vegas massacre. hasn’t once addressed the root cause of the murder of 58 of his fans and injury to over 400 people, which is about 1 of every 50 people who paid to see his act.

He hasn’t once addressed the root cause of the murder of 58 of his fans and injury to over 400 people, which is about 1 of every 50 people who paid to see his act.

As the NRA’s top performer at the Route 91 Country Music festival tragedy, Luke Combs is in a unique position to speak out against the gun laws that led to his fans being murdered, virtually in front of his eyes.

Combs could tell his fans that the only way they’ll truly be safe from mass murder at his shows is if laws are passed to restrict the casual ownership, purchase, and resale of high-powered AR-15-style weapons and expanded magazines.

But Luke Combs hasn’t said a single word about the NRA’s tragic gun laws which culminated in last night’s outrageous tragedy.

The NRA has politicized country music, their pro-gun laws have wounded country music fans, so now is the time to speak about America’s problem with gun violence and the terrible laws that enable mass murder.

Download our NEW Occupy Democrats app for your iPhone by clicking here or for your Android by clicking here. 



 Add your name to millions demanding that Congress take action on the President’s crimes. IMPEACH DONALD TRUMP!