Hurricane Irma is on a steady path of destruction to Florida, making a rampage through the tropics right now on its way there. Residents in the danger zone aren’t just bracing themselves to lose much of their belongings, they’re also learning that a Governor just intentionally made matters worse for them by stripping them of a crucial constitutional right just 24-hours before the hurricane hits.

Parts of south Florida are already under mandatory evacuation and the same will be imposed on other places throughout the state before Irma makes landfall sometime late Thursday afternoon.

Citizens of the U.S. Virgin Islands will get the brunt of the storm before Floridians do. Their governor, Kenneth Mapp, just made sure all the island citizens are far less prepared than they expected when the disturbing thing he just surprised them with as they try to protect themselves from the eye of the storm.

Seeing that this part of the U.S. is on the brink of another catastrophe, Mapp decided to not “let a good crisis go to waste.” The governor saw an opportunity to heed the advice once coined by Chicago’s Democratic Mayor Rahm Emanuel, who made the statement about taking advantage of crises when he was former President Obama’s chief of staff.

Mapp clearly didn’t consider the source when following in this lead as Emanuel’s city is in perpetual disaster and now the destruction in the U.S. Virgin Islands will face far worse than a hurricane.

The first wave of the hurricane is the storm itself, phase two of the disaster is the aftermath, which usually entails looting and other acts of desperation or taking advantage of a situation. Mapp wants to be sure that people can’t protect themselves from the criminals or any other dangers they may encounter by stripping these U.S. citizens on his island of their Second Amendment right.

Now, gun confiscation has begun in this region ahead of the massive storm set to hit just hours from now.

According to the New Orleans Times-Picayune, as Hurricane Irma approaches the islands, which is just 40 miles east of Puerto Rico, Gov. Mapp has ordered all guns and ammunition to be confiscated from residents in anticipation of the storm.

On Monday, Gov. Mapp signed an executive order authorizing Adjutant General Deborah Howell “to take whatever actions she considers necessary to carry out the assigned mission” of taking all of the island’s firearms.

“The Adjutant General is authorized and directed to seize arms, ammunition, explosives, incendiary material and any other property that may be required by the military forces for the performance of this emergency mission,” the order, which went into effect at 12:01 a.m. Tuesday, read.

The sweeping order comes as Mapp mobilizes the National Guard to help prepare for the storm, which is inching closer to the Caribbean.

“This is not an opportunity to go outside and try to have fun with a hurricane,” Mapp said. “It’s not time to get on a surfboard.”

What Mapp seemed to miss in his statement about what the time right now should not be used for, is to rob people of their Constitutional rights. Like Emanuel, he seems to be anti gun and thinks that stripping law-abiding people of this right and taking their protection from them will keep everyone safe. All it does it give criminals more power who don’t follow laws in the first place and certainly won’t be forfeiting their guns and ammo because the Governor of the island wants them to.

Thankfully, there someone else watching out for the people in harm’s way, making sure that Mapp doesn’t get away with this. The National Rifle Association is getting ready to challenge the Governor’s unconstitutional order.

“People need the ability to protect themselves during times of natural disaster,” Chris Cox, executive director of the NRA’s Institute for Legislative Action, said on Tuesday, according to Conservative Tribune. “This dangerous order violates the constitutional rights of law-abiding citizens and puts their lives at risk.”

“When 911 is nonexistent and law enforcement personnel are overwhelmed with search-and-rescue missions and other emergency duties, law-abiding American citizens must be able to protect their families and loved ones,” he added. “The NRA is prepared to pursue legal action to halt Gov. Mapp’s dangerous and unconstitutional order.”

While the order in itself is shocking, what makes it more surprising is that Mapp is actually registered as a Republican, and therefore, fighting neck-and-neck for the title of the biggest RINO in the country, next to John McCain.

Mapp can’t honestly call himself a Republican when he disregards the Constitution worse than some Democrats. He’s nothing more than an opportunist, using scare tactics and catastrophe to his advantage. This would be bad anytime, but just hours before what’s believed to be one of the biggest hurricanes to hit, “is not the time” to rob people of their rights while they face losing everything else.