The mega Amazon shopping website has redefined the way people shop and made malls and large shopping centers almost obsolete. With so much size and influence, the site seems to recognize their power and are now suspected of using it to send a disgusting message to President Donald Trump with a major change seen on their website overnight.

Of all the retailers in the country, Amazon is the picture of capitalism and the fruits of pursuing the American dream. Their products aren’t what makes America great, but they apparently don’t think the Donald Trump does either, as the President of the United States with the way they may have just stabbed him in the back to make someone else look much better.

Amazon has likely seen a massive increase in sales within the first eight months of Trump’s presidency, with all that he’s done for the economy.

Among the plethora of anything you could ever want and a lot which you probably don’t need that’s available for sale on the site is Hillary Clinton’s overhyped book. The site can’t seem to get rid of them and what they are suspected of doing to help sell her book certainly isn’t helping.

The American people’s voices were heard last November when Trump rightfully won the presidency. They saw Hillary for who she is, someone who can not be trusted with the keys to the White House after droves of unfortunate truths came out. Now, Amazon is allegedly censoring the American people’s opinions to protect her image and help her book sales, which can be seen as a backhanded way of getting back at Trump by making her look good.

Slashing the price of the book was only part of what the major retailer has to do to get Hillary’s book off their shelves. It’s what else they sneakily did to try to change people’s perception of her and her book of lies, that isn’t sitting well with shoppers.

Yesterday, TFPP reported that Amazon.com (along with Walmart) had slashed 40 percent off the price of Hillary Clinton’s new book “What Happened” before it’s even been released, a pretty unmistakable sign that the retail giants don’t exactly have much confidence that the failed presidential candidate will be a huge seller.

As of the time of this TFPP post’s writing, the book’s Amazon page shows 95 percent of the reviews were glowing five-star endorsements, with four and three stars at one percent each, no two-star reviews, and one-star reviews standing at three percent.

The proof of how people really feel about this book is the massive lack of sales as well as the fact that it also got heaps of one-star negative reviews on Amazon. Nobody can see that now or read the bad things people had to say about the book since the site is suspected of deleting them, leaving just the positive marks it got (which were probably not authentic anyway).

“The world has been treated to a variety of excerpts from Hillary Clinton’s books and they’ve pretty much confirmed all the reasons people didn’t vote for her,” Young Conservatives reported. “They’ve shown her to be delusional, petty and insufferably arrogant and the reviews have not been kind. Problem is that had you gone to Amazon to enter a review and say any of that or called out the book for what it is, spurious word vomit, you may have had trouble.”

One particularly detailed review of the book nailed it. It’s easy to see why the site may not have wanted it since it’s definitely not doing Hillary’s book sales any favors:

“It appears to be written with the intent of securing a luxurious retirement. I really don’t think she cared much about the substance of the book itself – but merely finding ways to fill pages with content so as to generate a marketable product. At the end of the day, her name is what is selling the book; not the print on its pages. And even if she only sells 1,000 copies, that’s enough to make writing it worthwhile.”

“But if you’re looking for some kind of meaning or understanding out of this book, I’m afraid that it simply isn’t there. It’s merely the continuation of her meltdown performance, after being denied all other public platforms to on which to do so. It’s littered with baseless claims and accusations . . . a painfully stupid monologue not unlike that which you would see on an episode of The Bachelor.”

Hillary doesn’t need to write a book of excuses, her actions already wrote her demise in the presidential election. She just needs slip into obscurity, not try to capitalize on her failure. Trump rightfully won the presidency because the American people voted for him, not her. If Amazon is really deleting bad comments about Hillary and her book, then they deserve to be stuck with all that extra inventory of lies they’re sitting on that nobody wants, because they can hide it, but it doesn’t change the facts.