Make no mistake about it the purported terror attack in St. Petersburg where, supposedly, a shrapnel-filled bomb was let loose is a fake and a hoax. There was no such bomb. Instead, smoke bombs were used to feign a terror attack in what was nothing other than an arch-drill and terminally corrupt fake.

The fact that it was clouded by not bomb-blast residue but, rather, as a consequence of the letting loose of harmless pyrotechnic devices is seen clearly, here:

This is obviously mere pyrotechnic-released smoke with imagery taken by in-placed camera-toting personnel. Regardless, the crowd represents pre-hired crisis actors paid a fee for their role in the scam. The lack of any crisis-related reactions, no urgency, no true panic or horror, is hard proof that this is a set up and and a fake.

Moreover, as far as hoaxes are concerned this is a most inane one, absolutely poorly constructed, obvious to even the most un-sophisticated eye:

No one can believe this is anything other than a drill considering how casual are the individuals seen on-site.  The people are looking directly into the cameras and are moving about in a ambling course; no one is in shock, no one shows any fear or panic; no one is clearly and obviously injured:

A person can see the nature of the drill, here, with crisis actors feigning wounds abounding. Note the application of fake blood on the cement structure, also the seated man. Notice what is in his hand. It is a packet of fake blood.

It does appear that the individual, fully unhurt, is manipulating a fake blood packet to pour on, possibly, his clothes.

Here are two fire extinguishers placed as props, simply put on the pavement in a line: a sloppy effort, as far as hoaxes go.

The doors were wrenched or pried out with no other major damage seen, certainly none of the expected bomb-blast-related destruction.

Once the smoke has cleared the exclusive damage to the door, saving the rest of the cab, is seen, here:

It appears that fake blood has been applied to the metal frame as well as dabbed inside.

No wonder people are smiling and smirking in the back-ground.

This is a hoax and a drill. Nothing real or hurtful happened, here. No one was injured. No one died. There was no ‘Islamist’ Chechen bomber.