Photos of John Kelly's exasperated reaction to President Donald Trump's speech to the United Nations on Tuesday had Twitter users going wild.

The usually stoic White House Chief of Staff put his hand over his face as the president addressed the 193-nation body and referred to Kim Jong Un as 'rocket man'.

In addition to nick-naming the North Korean based on threats of nuclear force, the commander in chief blasted 'loser terrorists,' the 'corrupt' Venezuelan government, and the 'murderous' Iranian regime and 'rogue regimes'.

It took no time for people to catch onto Kelly's distressed reactions - and within minutes Twitter exploded with amusement and empathy for the disgruntled chief of staff.

During Tuesday morning's speech Kelly clearly couldn't control his reaction - and a photo shows him with his eyes closed and his hand cupped over his temple.

The reaction was similar to one that Captain Jean-Luc Picard makes in Star Trek - as many people pointed out on social media by sharing a meme of the character.

At another point of Trump's address, Kelly put his elbows on his knees and pressed his face onto his clasped hands, looking like he was deeply contemplating his choices.

An editor of the Washington Examiner tweeted: 'John Kelly apparently went through some sort of existential crisis during Trump's UN speech.'

A number of people also expressed empathy towards Kelly's reaction.

One twitter user with the tag 'Duty To Warn' referred to the Chief of Staff's reaction as 'the Facepalm heard around the world,' adding - 'we get it, John'.

And others just plain made fun of his reaction.

Laurence Tribe, a professor at Harvard University wrote: 'Some pics wd (sic) be a bargain at 10,000 words, never mind a mere thousand.'

And another social media user wrote: 'John Kelly was embarrassed by Trump calling Un "rocket man," wait until he starts calling Mueller "inspector poopy face doody head.'

While it's not entirely clear what the 67-year-old was thinking during the speech, his facial cues indicated he was less than pleased.

And though a number of people said they understood the feeling - some Twitter users were less than pleased.

Fox News Business Network host Lou Dobbs said Kelly either needs to control himself or head to Hollywood for the dramatic reaction.

Another person gave Kelly an electronic eye-roll by tweeting that he is the 'last person on planet earth who still gets surprised by Donald Trump's erratic behavior.'

His reaction was similar to how he looked when Trump first said there were bad guys on 'both sides' of the Charlottesville riots, grouping together Neo-Nazis and protesters.

Kelly is seen as one of the more grounded and straight-laced figured in the Trump administration. The New York Times once labelled him a 'beacon of discipline.'

He replaced the former chief of staff Reince Priebus in July.

White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders was questioned about the speech and Kelly's response on Fox and Friends Wednesday morning.

Sanders laughed off the chief of staff's embarrassed demeanor - claiming that he was probably just tired.

She claimed that Kelly wasn't reacting to the speech itself, and that, in fact, he was part fo the speech writig process.

'I would certainly not read anything into that picture,' Sanders explained.

'Just like the rest of us, we're tired trying to keep up with this president who is working hard every day to help America.'