President Trump took to Twitter this Sunday morning to shout about a lot of things, as if the popular Simpsons meme of a newspaper clipping reading “Old Man Yells At Cloud” had come to life.

It’s literally rare that he actually comes up with something new or profound. Among other things he did on Sunday, he took to belligerently alleging that Democrats are “obstructionists” and keeping his agenda from moving forward.

It’s an easy cop-out for the President to blame the Democrats for the fact that very little in the realm of popular public policy reform has actually gotten done since taking office. Doing so helps hide his own utter ineptitude and the fact that many of his campaign promises — like the U.S./ Mexico border wall — are patently ridiculous.

Trump’s Sunday morning Twitter commentary on the subject reads: “The Democrats have no message, not on economics, not on taxes, not on jobs, not on failing Obamacare. They are only OBSTRUCTIONISTS!”

Ironically, the Democratic Party does have a message, and the opportunity to develop the core of what’s been their message lately was given to them by Trump himself.

The Democrats by and large have emerged as the party of the underdog, out to defend everyone who isn’t an at-least somewhat affluent white male and is thus an underdog in Trump’s world. These people include women, immigrants and Muslims, all of whom have been specifically targeted by the Trump Administration and Republicans who have fallen in line behind it like sheep.

In addition, if you propose stupid stuff and not everyone is on board with your stupidity, could those opposing you really be called obstructionists? Are you really surprised, Trump, that America isn’t falling in line behind the idea of your healthcare bill when it strips health coverage from tens of millions of people?

How stupid are you? It’s not obstructionism, it’s called survival instinct, you idiot.

The Trump Administration hasn’t even made that many lofty legislative proposals to begin with. Most of what Trump and the other Republicans have done since January 20 has centered on punitively tearing up the accomplishments of the Obama era.

As always, Twitter let Trump have it, and you can check out some of the best comments below: