Ivanka Trump has no idea what she’s doing, and she has no place to pretend like she does, but she continues on anyway.

She’s taken on a First Lady-esque role and has used her newfound fame upon her father’s ascent to power to advocate for women’s causes, but her advocacy is a toothless one.

While with her father in Saudi Arabia, Ivanka Trump worked hand in hand with World Bank President Jim Yong Kim to unveil a new World Bank fund for the advancement of female entrepreneurs. As the Wall Street Journal notes, Ivanka has advocated for such issues broadly since January, but there’s been little substantive to show for her advocacy thus far. It’s just been a bunch of talk from a shoe designer.

Speaking of the fund, Jim Yong Kim said, “This facility has clear alignment with our broader work to advance women’s economic empowerment. We look forward to launching the facility later this year.”

Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates will be contributing a combined $100 million to the fund, which hasn’t been officially rolled out yet.

This fund is, apparently, the culmination of the plans on Ivanka’s part that Axios revealed earlier this year when Ivanka visited Germany. At the time, there were immediate, serious ethical questions as to how Ivanka could manage a fund while supposedly maintaining no bias as an official White House staffer in her dad’s presidential administration.

While those questions haven’t been fully put to rest, they have, apparently, been put to rest in the case of this fund, with Ivanka having no direct control over it.

Concurrent to the announcement of this fund, Ivanka held a discussion with female civil society leaders of Saudi Arabia and with the World Bank President, Mr. Kim.

She put up a tweet about this meeting, writing, “Thank you JimYongKim for your leadership & for joining me in a meaningful discussion with women entrepreneurs today.”

Seriously though, how disconnected can you get? Ivanka’s own company is connected to the exploitation of Chinese workers; in Saudi Arabia, women aren’t even allowed to drive; and none of that is even covering her dad, Mr. Sexist-in-Chief.

And she wants to pretend like all is fine and dandy when it comes to issues of advocacy women’s empowerment?

Check out some of the best responses to Ivanka’s ridiculous tweet below: