In the months following his firing from Fox News, Bill O’Reilly said this week that he should have fought back like his colleague Sean Hannity in the face of leftist opponents who he believes prompted his firing from the dominant cable news channel.

In an interview with Newsmax TV’s John Bachman, O’Reilly expressed a few regrets and said he should have hit back at critics harder, much like Fox News host Hannity did recently when he found himself under attack.

“This was no accident. Our sponsors were attacked. This is very well organized. They tried to with Hannity,” O’Reilly said.

“Hannity actually fought back. I didn’t. I should have. For reasons that I cannot explain now, I did not.”

According to The Hill, O’Reilly was alluding to the recent attack on Hannity when he reported on a conspiracy theory about murdered Democrat National Committee staffer Seth Rich.

The left-leaning website Media Matters published a list of Hannity’s advertisers resulting in a few bailing on the popular talk show host, including USAA, the insurance and financial services company that specializes in veteran services.

Check out the wide-ranging interview here. The discussion about O’Reilly’s ouster starts about the 12:20 mark:

Not one to back down from a battle, Hannity confronted his attackers and fought back against what he called “liberal fascism.” His actions, in addition to a massive public outcry on his behalf, forced USAA to reverse its decision. Unlike O’Reilly, Hannity has retained his position at Fox News.

The Washington Examiner reported that O’Reilly went on to state in the interview that Hannity handled the situation well and admitted regret that he should have done the same.

“I admire Sean, and I admire how he handled the situation,” he said. “He brought it directly to the folks, and the sponsors stopped. He lost a few, but they stopped, so he was successful in fighting off the attack. But there will be more.”

O’Reilly’s comments to Newsmax TV come on the heels of his sudden firing from Fox News in April after reports that five women were paid $13 million in settlement funds over allegations that he sexually harassed them. Speculation continues to swirl as to if, when — and with which news outlet — O’Reilly will return to television.

As conservative America continues to wonder if, when and where O’Reilly will make a comeback, his most recent comments reveal a more introspective and humble O’Reilly. In the wake of his very public firing, he is now speculating on the mistakes that might have contributed to his demise. Would he have kept his job at Fox if he’d only fought harder?

Smart people learn from their mistakes — and O’Reilly is smart. In the future, no matter where or with whom he makes a return, he will likely view the new opportunity with fresh eyes and a renewed spirit to take on whatever battles may come his way.

Please share this on Facebook and Twitter and spread the news that Bill O’Reilly seems to be back in fighting form!