In light of the mainstream media’s ongoing conflict with President Donald Trump, the White House has treated the media a little differently than past administrations, and one recent, shocking change-up has reporters fuming.

On Monday, White House press secretary Sean Spicer informed reporters that the usual publicly broadcast press briefings would now be conducted off-camera, instructing them that they could not film or broadcast audio of the proceedings, according to The Hill.

The decision sparked heated backlash from major media outlets, including CNN, whose White House reporter, Jim Acosta, slammed the Trump administration for their “suppression of information.”

“There is a suppression of information going on at this WH that would not be tolerated at a city council mtg or press conf with a state gov.,” Acosta tweeted.

“Call me old fashioned,” Acosta continued in another tweet, “but I think the White House of the United States of America should have the backbone to answer questions on camera.”

When challenged on the decision at the press briefing, Spicer told Time reporter Zeke Miller that Trump himself had appeared on camera earlier that day during a meeting with the Panamanian president and would be doing so again later that day at a technology council meeting.

“There are days where we decide that the president’s voice should be the one who speaks for the administration,” Spicer said.

However, some reporters have expressed concern that there is usually no opportunity on those occasions for reporters to question the president or his administration officials — a fundamental part of the media’s duty.

“It feels like we’re slowly but surely being dragged into what is a new normal in this country, where the president of the United States is allowed to insulate himself from answering hard questions,” Acosta said on CNN, according to The Atlantic.

While many people wouldn’t be upset to see the White House press briefings cease — including both those who distrust the president and those who distrust what the media reports about the president — others have claimed that the daily briefings are crucial.

Martha Kumar, a professor who studies White House communications, indicated that the briefings are useful for both the press and the president, according to CNN.

“The briefing is an opportunity to hold people accountable, and just knowing that reporters are going to ask questions, that becomes part of policy thoughts and discussions within an administration,” Kumar said. “So, from that vantage point, it’s very useful for the president and for his White House staff. It’s also useful for reporters because reporters can let the White House know what issues are going to be coming up and how people are interpreting what it is they’re doing.”

With the level of distrust between Trump administration and mainstream media, it doesn’t look like either side is willing to budge.

Do you think the Trump administration conducting the White House press briefings off-camera is a good idea? Like and share this article on Facebook and Twitter and let us know in the comment section below.