An extreme error was made in the previous post, where in a misguided manner the attack was considered fabricated. Nodisinfo.com issues major apologies for this error. Calling it other than what it is, which is a murderous plot against the Islamic people of Iran, was a terrible mistake. May God forgive the error. Please disregard completely the previous information, as it is erroneous. The fact is some 17 people were martyred, with another 50 or more wounded; many were simply shot at point blank range, killed in cold-blood. This is a serious issue and must never be slighted, God give these martyrs peace.

Islamic Iran has come under attack as a result of a Zionist plot. That attack was based upon the infiltration of the nation’s capital by apparent Iranian-domiciled agents working on behalf of the Zionist regime.

The attack, treacherous as it was, while relatively feeble, was an attempt to destabilize Islamic Iran from within. The co-ordinating forces were the US spy agencies and the Mossad. It was a wild attack with gunmen shooting up the parliamentary building and most likely attempting to murder parliamentarians.

The cowardly terrorists began shooting randomly at both people and infrastructure. One of them detonated a bomb, possibly a bomb-vest, apparently blowing himself up, while injuring others:

Here is the residual damage from the bomb that was detonated near the area of the shrine:

Security forces were on the scene quickly and likely prevented further carnage. Even so, these terrorists struck by surprise and there are some reports they disguised themselves as women.

The following is a video, provided by a poster, shows the actions of the terrorists in graphic detail:

Here, it can be seen, an unsuspecting man was shot at point-blank range. How absolutely cowardly it is to shoot an unarmed man in this manner.

The bombing/attack was plot against the government of Iran as well as the common people. Saudi threats of taking the aggression to Iran came a mere 72 hours prior to the assault. The Saudis are merely proxy agents of the Zionists. Thus, it is Zionist criminal agents who are responsible for this carnage with left some 17 dead and over 40 wounded. In this regard it is crucial that the military services of the Islamic Republic investigate this to the extreme and determine any co-conspirators, particularly any collaborating Zionist agents within the country.

Security forces reacted vigorously and killed the perpetrators, taking out two of the attackers relatively quickly. Thanks to all posters for alerting as to the facts on the ground and for allowing the error, here, to be recognized quickly.

Here is one of the terrorists who was killed near the Imam Khomeini shrine.

Behind this are the Zionists, who are continuously plotting against the Islamic Republic. Make no mistake the funding and the scheme for this was orchestrated Jewish powerful ones, not any Islamic group. God bless the people of Iran for all that they have suffered at the hands of rabid Zionist extremists and their proxy agents in the United States of Tyranny.