Make no mistake despite much protestation otherwise the purported stabbing of three men on a commuter train in Portland, Oregon, is a fake and a hoax. This is proven by a number of evidences, including the use of a variety of crisis actors as purported witnesses. Notice how fake this appears, with the cops acting like they are taking an actual report, scribbling on pads. It’s all a grandiose fake, and no one can demonstrate otherwise.

Why would the media be busy taking images of cops taking ‘histories’ on clip-boards and note pads, uploading these as important, ‘revealing’ images?

The setting-up of these crisis actors for this fraud can be seen in the following video. Notice the woman with the pink strap from a pink back-pack. First, notice how calm, as well as scripted, she is. From the video it is clear that she is reciting this as a paid agent, made to look like she was just a common person witnessing an event:

Here she is, again, from a different angle. She is surrounded by cameras:

There is no panic to any degree, here, no shock: no emotional reaction or horror of any kind and there must be some degree of this considering the claims at-hand.

Mimicking the official story line she says that the most horrific of all acts occurred, when the men were stabbed, right in the neck:

All this is to create a great degree of shock in the public mind, so that the people will buy the entire story line without even questioning it. Who would go up against this and claim the lie in the midst of people who might well have died or have been injured in such horrific acts? In fact, it is this claim, this Hollywood-style horror movie story line, that is done with malice, all to influence and manipulate the public consciousness. In part, this manipulation is to cause a great emotional reaction in the people and see how far they can be pushed, even into purging their own financial assets on the basis of such a treacherous lie: giving money freely to a fraud. How much more wicked can it get?

Yet, does this man, presumably Micah Fletcher,  look like he just suffered as stabbing wound to the neck or had been cut to any degree in or across the throat?

Where is the stab wound in this case? In fact, there is no such wound, no laceration, no puncture wounds of any kind. All that is seen is some purplish-brown coloration and a seemingly unattached tube with red coloring matter. Regardless, is this fabricator, too, really worth it all, including ‘donations’ amounting to a quarter of a million dollars? Who in the world, then, is still calling this real?

Another major crisis actor in this fraud was the following women, the one who said that all three men were cut along the neck, once again showing no emotion:

Here is the platform on an overhead view. The clear evidence of staging and arch-hoaxing can be seen:

The mother of one of the fake dead individuals, Asha Deliverance, is also a crisis actor, obviously so. Who would upon losing their son in sun a horrific event stage such a picture before the cameras, unless the person is a hoax associate?

Yet, regardless, train stabbings were being repeatedly faked prior to this, perhaps as dry runs for the major, planned Memorial Day-associated hoax, such as this example, a total fake, no doubt about it:

The main crisis actor for this hoax is the man with the green bandana and green earrings. Colors are often leveraged as elements in these arch-Zionist-orchestrated psyops.

Like other crisis actors in various interviews Mr. Stovall gave various versions. There were at least two fake stabbings related to commuter train (fake) incidents that led up to the more dramatic hoax. More will be posted on this later.