If the name "Jack Schlossberg" comes up in politics in a few years, you'll have Barack Obama to thank.

Schlossberg, the son of Caroline Kennedy and only grandson of President John F. Kennedy, said Obama inspired him in 2008, likening it to the way his grandfather galvanized a generation to enter public service when he asked his fellow Americans what they could do for their country.

"Without Barack Obama, I might still be sitting on my couch, eating Doritos and watching sports," the 24-year-old said Sunday while introducing the former president, the latest recipient of the annual JFK Profile in Courage award.

He praised Obama, saying it took courage to pursue health care reform and to address climate change aggressively, among other issues.

"He showed me and my generation what is possible from our politics and gave us a new standard of political courage to guide us going forward," he said. "He connected us to one another with his hope and his determination. We all, especially young Americans, owe a great debt to this courageous president.

Following Schlossberg's introduction, Obama took the stage, critiquing the efforts to dismantle the Affordable Care Act while never mentioning President Trump by name.

"I hope that current members of Congress recall that it actually doesn’t take a lot of courage to aid those who are already powerful, already comfortable, already influential," he said. "But it does require some courage to champion the vulnerable and the sick and the infirm — those who often have no access to the corridors of power. I hope they understand that courage means not simply doing what’s politically expedient, but doing what they believe deep in our hearts is right."

Schlossberg's speech on Sunday night came a couple days after he gave his first live interview on the Today show, alongside his mother. He said he would support Caroline Kennedy if she ran for office. He's also still working out what he wants to do.

"I'm inspired by my family's legacy of public service," he said. "It's something that I’m very proud of, but I'm still trying to make my own way, figure things out, so stay tuned."