Donald Trump gave a shy curtsy as he was awarded a medal by Saudi King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud on Saturday, sending his savage Twitter critics in to overdrive.

The president is in Riyadh for the first day of his inaugural overseas trip and how he greets his royal hosts has been a source of entertainment and debate.

After earlier shaking King Salman's hand, Trump lost his towering figure when it came to accepting the Collar of Abdulaziz Al Saud, the country's highest civilian honor which has been bestowed on presidents before him, at the Royal Court.

Instead of bowing, he gave an ever-so-slight bend of the knees once the ornate medallion was round his neck. Whether it was a deliberate curtsy or not is already being disputed but whatever Trump's intention, it has sparked wild back-and-forth between his critics and fans.

Two simultaneous strains of ridicule emerged from his naysayers. One focused on his poor grasp of etiquette and the begged the more serious question of whether the curtsy was a sign of his willingness to bow down to deep-pocketed Arabs during his first trip overseas as president.

Trump's supporters insisted that the gesture was made so that the older, shorter King would not have to strain himself when placing the medal around his neck.

Their attempts to play it down were met with even more laughter from Trump critics.

'I think 2016 Trump would be embarrassed by 2017 Trump doing a curtsy,' said one.

'Did I just watch the President of the United States of America curtsy to the Saudi King? What was that?' another quipped.

Their savagery was egged on by Trump's condemnation of Barack Obama for bowing to King Abdullah in 2009.

'For all those that were apoplectic over Obama's bow, I present the Trump curtsy,' said one critic.

'Remember when Trump said Obama was a disgrace for bowing to Saudi's? Haha, guess who bowed to them today. Or perhaps it was a curtsy?' another pointed out.

Some said it amounted to proof the president was trying to 'suck up' to to deep-pocketed Arabs.

WHAT IS THE PROTOCOL?  George W. Bush was criticized for holding hands with Saudi Crown Prince Abdullah in 2005 Royal etiquette rules vary between countries and families but by and large, curtsies are performed by women and girls. American presidents have traditionally abstained from bowing to foreign royalty in order to preserve a peer-like relationship rather. The idea is to avoid a dynamic where one leader is seen as the superior. The State Department's protocol advises 'thou need not bow'. Several incidents in the past have raised questions over whether it ought to be enforced as a rule. Barack Obama was lampooned for appearing to bow to King Abdullah in 2009. Conservative critics said it weakened the US's authority in negotiations in the Middle East and the White House insisted the bow never took place. He sparked controversy again when he bowed in front of Japan's Emperor Akihito.  George W. Bush was globally ridiculed after being pictured holding hands with a Saudi prince. Michelle Obama was accused of a serious breach of British royal etiquette when she placed her hand on Queen Elizabeth's back during a meeting in 2009.  President Bush embraced King Abdullah with a kiss during a 2008 visit to Riyadh Michelle Obama was accused of breaching British royal etiquette by touching Queen Elizabeth on the back in 2009

'That Trump can suck up like no one I have ever seen. Did you see that curtsy! Wow and SAD!'

'Now he has got the collar he will fetch at will. Go fetch Donald,' said another in reference to the Collar of Abdulaziz Al Saud Medal, a civilian order which is given to non-Muslim foreign heads of state.

Even his own camp didn't appear to approve of the move.

Roger Stone, his long-term adviser and friend, said watching the president receive the award made him want to 'puke'.

Many spoke out to defend the president, claiming the knee-bend was nothing more than a kind gesture to accommodate the older, shorter King.

'Trump did not bow. He bent his body to accommodate an older man by putting an award over his head,' said one.

Fox's Senior White House Correspondent John Roberts was among those who spoke in the president's defense.

'A little accuracy is needed. Donald Trump did not "bow" to King Salman.

'He bent over so Salman could present the Collar of Abdulaziz,' he said.

Indeed the president appeared to bow his head before the medal was placed. The dip in his knees came once it was around his neck and as he straightened back up.

Though it was just the first day of their trip, the first family fended off a number of etiquette complaints after arriving in Riyadh on Saturday.

Many questioned why Melania and Ivanka were not wearing headscarves out of respect for the country's devotion to Islam.

Neither Michelle Obama nor Laura Bush wore headscarves during previous visits.