President Donald Trump is blasting the press for not giving a Republican House vote on a bill to repeal and replace Obamacare the credit it deserves.

The criticism came in a pair of strident tweets on Friday evening, after Trump had arrived at his golf course in Bedminster, New Jersey, where he plans to spend the weekend for the first time as president.

'Wow, the Fake News media did everything in its power to make the Republican Healthcare victory look as bad as possible. Far better than Ocare!' one tweet at 7.22pm Eastern time read.

'Why is it that the Fake News rarely reports Ocare is on its last legs and that insurance companies are fleeing for their lives? It's dead!' read another at 7.29pm.

The narrow passage of the bill in the Republican-controlled US House of Representatives came after House Republicans failed to reach a consensus in March and a vote on the issue was scrapped.

Wrangling on the bill now shifts to the Senate, where Republicans, who hold a slim majority there, say they are readying their own health care measure.

The end result could look quite different from what cleared the House of Representatives Thursday.

Trump has called Obamacare a 'disaster' and congressional Republicans have long targeted the 2010 law, formally known as the Affordable Care Act, calling it government overreach.

But despite holding the White House and controlling both houses of Congress, Republicans have found overturning Obamacare politically perilous, partly because of voter fears, loudly expressed at constituents' town-hall meetings, that many people would lose their health insurance as a result.

With Thursday's 217-213 vote, Republicans obtained just enough support to push the legislation through the House, sending it to the Senate for consideration.

No Democratic House members voted for the bill. Democrats say it would make insurance unaffordable for those who need it most and leave millions more uninsured. They accuse Republicans of seeking tax cuts for the rich, partly paid for by cutting health benefits.

The legislation, called the American Health Care Act, is by no means a sure thing in the Senate, where the Republicans hold a slender 52-48 majority in the 100-seat chamber and where only a few Republican defections could sink it.

As Republicans crossed over the vote threshold to pass the bill, Democrats in the House began singing 'Na na, na na na na, hey hey hey, goodbye,' a rowdy suggestion that Republicans will lose seats in the 2018 congressional elections because of their vote.

Within an hour of the vote, Trump celebrated with House lawmakers in the White House Rose Garden.

'I went through two years of campaigning and I'm telling you, no matter where I went, people were suffering so badly with the ravages of Obamacare,' Trump said. 'We are going to get this passed through the Senate. I am so confident.'