A short video claims to have captured the daring rescue of a little girl in Mosul Iraq who was caught in the line of fire. During a hail of gunfire, David Eubank, a former US Special Forces operator-turned aid worker, was captured on video making the daring rescue.

According to Bizpac Review, the incident took place in the embattled northern Iraq city of Mosul, which is on the verge of being freed from ISIS control. Of course, it’s also an area in which US-led coalition forces admitted to using white phosphorus to achieve this imminent “defeat.” Eubank, who formed the Free Burma Rangers, an aid group that delivers medicine, supplies and humanitarian support where other organizations cannot go, is seen spotting a little girl among the bodies of dozens of civilians who were allegedly cut down by Islamic State snipers as they tried to flee the fighting.

*There are images of dead bodies and sounds of gunfire in this video; it may be disturbing to some viewers. The video is only 30 seconds long.

The Iraqi troops Eubank was embedded with coordinated with the U.S.-led coalition to drop smoke canisters to shield the rescuers from the snipers’ view. Eubank and others crept up on foot behind an advancing tank, bullets pinging all around them as they got closer to the wounded civilians. “Then the Americans dropped the biggest barrage, the most perfect wall of smoke I’d ever seen,” Eubank said. His team was yards away from the girl, and there still “was shooting everywhere.” But it was now or never. “I thought, ‘If I die doing this, my wife and kids would understand.’”

The Burma Free Rangers took to Twitter immediately to tout the successful rescue.

The harrowing rescue can be read about here, in its entirety on the Free Burma Rangers website.

War is hell. And the US is still battling the ISIS demon they created. It’s no secret anymore that the US creates enemies out of thin air in order to keep a perpetual war in motion. But if the United States hadn’t created ISIS in the first place, there would be no reason to have to save little girls from the ravages of war. But it’s all in the name of freedom of course.

Kudos to David Eubank for his heroic actions and putting his life on the line to save a young child. But shame on the government for putting him in that situation to begin with.

We encourage you to share and republish our reports, analyses, breaking news and videos (Click for details).

Contributed by Dawn Luger of The Daily Sheeple.

Dawn Luger is a staff writer and reporter for The Daily Sheeple. Wake the flock up – follow Dawn’s work at our Facebook or Twitter.