Miss Texas publicly called out Donald Trump for his response to the Charlottesville violence during Sunday night’s Miss America pageant, and the Houston native has become something of an internet celebrity in response to her candor.

As Salon reports, Miss Texas, Margana Wood, represented the Lone Star State at the annual pageant. As in all such pageants, Wood was put through a question-and-answer session, and the judges asked her what she thought about the president’s response to the violence in Charlottesville, Virginia. Trump, you may remember, received widespread criticism for his response to the violence, which left one person dead when an alt-right protester allegedly drove his car into the crowd. The president’s response was seen by some observers as too little, too late. He received further criticism for failing to condemn the Nazis and white supremacists who attended the rally, and for saying that there was violence “on many sides.”

“I think that the white supremacist issue, it was very obvious that it was a terrorist attack. And I think that President Donald Trump should’ve made a statement earlier addressing the fact, and in making sure all Americans feel safe in this country. That is the number one issue right now.”

The response drew applause from the audience.

Since her moment, Wood has gone on to become something of an internet sensation, with observers far and wide complimenting her for her candor.

Unfortunately for Wood, she didn’t wind up winning the pageant. That honor went to Cara Mund, the first Miss North Dakota to ever win the pageant, according to the Washington Post.

The Miss America Pageant is not associated with the Miss USA Pageant, which was owned by Donald Trump from 1996 to 2015, according to Yahoo News. The Miss America Pageant is focused more on education, and provides scholarships to participants. The Miss USA Pageant, on the other hand, is more of a commercial venture.

As Rolling Stone reported in 2016, Trump has been faced with allegations of misconduct while he owned the rights to the pageant, including walking into the women’s dressing rooms, where girls as young as 15 were in various stages of undress.