Kid Rock Has a Plan For Americans that Will Have YOU CHEERING!

Kid Rock Has a Plan For Americans that Will Have YOU CHEERING!

After witnessing the chaotic screw up happening today in the Senate, involving the failed attempt to repeal and replace Obamacare, it’s clear that we need MORE common sense politicians like Kid Rock, asap!

Enough is enough with these career politicians, who have a slew of underlying “ulterior motives,” and do not place the needs of we the people first.

They are beholden to lobbyists and special interests, and simply do not care about the American people.

We need to streamline all of our processes so the average American can easily access and understand what is affecting their lives – like healthcare, and taxes.

A few days after announcing his intention to run for U.S. Senate in Michigan, Kid Rock is providing some insight into his positions on key policies including taxes and health care.

In a message posted on his social media accounts Monday, the 46-year-old “Born Free” musician wrote that American taxpayers should be able to “easily understand and navigate” tax law, health care law, or any other government-led initiative that “affects us all.”

“I believe if you work your butt off and pay taxes, you should be able to easily understand and navigate the laws, tax codes, health care and anything else the government puts in place that affects us all,” Rock wrote in the statement.

The statement comes just a few days after Rock appeared to confirm his Senate candidacyin a statement posted on his website.

In the brief message, Rock — real name Robert James Ritchie — blasted the media for “once again” being “wrong” about his potential candidacy, and took a not-so-subtle swipe at incumbent Democratic Michigan Sen. Debbie Stabenow.

Rock also wrote that he has 15 days from the time of his announcement to file the proper paperwork with the Federal Election Commission, and vowed to release music during his Senate campaign, similar to how politicians release books during their own campaigns.

“It’s not a hoax, it’s a strategy and marketing 101,” he wrote.

Amy Moreno is a Published Author, Pug Lover & Game of Thrones Nerd. You can reach her on Facebook here.