Despite the shrieks of “IMPEACH HIM!!!” from libtards and the lying mainstream media over President Trump’s firing of disgraced FBI Director James Comey, polling shows the public is yawning over the so-called scandal.

The new Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll published Sunday shows Trump’s decision to fire Comey is opposed by only 38 percent of Americans.

Most Americans, don’t care one way or the other.

Yet, the Democrats are trying to gin this up as the Impeachable offense of the decade.

Once again, Dems are woefully out of touch with the American people.

Despite histrionics from the mainstream media and Democratic lawmakers over President Trump’s firing of FBI Director James Comey last week, latest polling shows the public are greeting the “scandal” with a resounding “meh.”

A Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll published Sunday shows Trump’s decision to fire Comey — after he received a recommendation from Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, who cited Comey’s handling of the Clinton email probe — is opposed by just 38 percent of Americans.

While only 29 percent  of those surveyed approved of the firing, 33 percent said they didn’t know or weren’t sure. This means, despite wall-to-wall negative news coverage of the dismissal, including mainstream commentators delving into fringe conspiracy theories about Russia/Trump ties, 62 percent of Americans are either fine or indifferent to Comey’s ouster.

Mainstream news outlets have been filled with various Democrats and commentators declaring Comey’s firing a “Nixonian” move reminiscent of the Watergate scandal. On Thursday, “The View” host Whoopi Goldberg said the firing “feels like a coup,” a sentiment also shared by the Atlantic’s David Frum on Twitter.

Democratic politicians have not been any less theatrical, with Sen. Brian Schatz, D-Hawaii, tweeting last week: “We are in a full-fledged constitutional crisis.”

Amy Moreno is a Published Author, Pug Lover & Game of Thrones Nerd. You can reach her on Facebook here.