WASHINGTON — Congressional negotiators are getting close to an agreement on legislation to prevent a government shutdown at midnight Friday, House Speaker Paul Ryan said Wednesday.

The Wisconsin Republican told reporters that members of the House and Senate Appropriations committees, in consultation with the White House, are hammering out the last few items in a spending bill that would fund federal agencies through September and avert a shutdown. Congress passed a stop-gap spending measure in December that funded federal agencies through April 28.

"We're getting really close," Ryan said. "I think we're making really good progress. Now it's just kind of getting down to our final details."

Ryan said he believes lawmakers can avoid the need to pass a short stop-gap measure to fund the government for a few days to give Congress more time to negotiate a longer-term spending bill.

"That's not our intention or goal," he said. "We want to get this done on time. That's our plan."

Ryan did not provide any details of what will be in the bill, except to say that it will include "strengthening our national defense."

Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., implied Thursday that Democrats' demands are holding up an agreement.

"Conversations are ongoing about the way forward on a government spending bill," McConnell said Wednesday on the Senate floor. "Our friends on the other side of the aisle sent me a letter asking for this bill to reject poison pill riders. I would suggest that, if they take their own advice, we can finish this negotiation and produce a good agreement that both sides can support."

The biggest poison pill rider for Democrats — money for construction of a Southwest border wall — appeared to be gone Tuesday when President Trump backed off his demand for immediate funding, opting instead to fight for money in the 2018 budget.

Democratic congressional leaders had warned Monday that Trump's demand for $1.4 billion in emergency funds to begin construction of a wall on the U.S.-Mexico border would lead to a government shutdown because they would not support the funding. Republican leaders need Democrats to help them pass the legislation to keep the government open.

Trump's initial demand for border wall funding was part of a $33 billion funding request that included $30 billion in extra spending for defense and combat operations and $3 billion for border security, including the wall. Congress is likely to give the president more than $15 million in additional defense spending and some extra money for overall border security that does not include the wall.

While praising Trump for dropping his demand for immediate funding for the wall, Democratic leaders said Wednesday that may not be enough to win their support for the legislation.

"We Democrats remain committed to fighting President Trump’s cutbacks on women’s health, rollback of financial protections in Wall Street reform, rollbacks of protections for clean air and clear water, against a deportation force," Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., said Wednesday on the Senate floor. "So those are the kind of poison pill riders that could hurt an agreement."

Schumer said Democrats want language in the bill to ensure that federal subsidies owed to health insurance companies under Obamacare are paid so that insurance premiums don't go up for low-income families. Trump has threatened to withhold the payments to force Democrats to bargain on a health care bill to replace the Affordable Care Act.

Democrats also are seeking aid for Puerto Rico, which is about to run out of Medicaid money and face a major health care crisis.

Both Schumer and McConnell have said they want to add a provision to the bill to extend health care benefits for retired union coal miners, who will lose those benefits at midnight Friday unless Congress acts.

"We still have a few issues to work out, including the issue of cost sharing, Puerto Rico, and getting permanent health care for miners," Schumer said. "But above all in the bill, we have to make sure there are no poison pill riders. I hope both sides of the aisle will pursue that now."