Winston Churchill's grandson called Donald Trump a 'daft twerp' after the US president made a comment connecting the UK's rise in crime to 'Radical Islamic terror'.

On Friday morning, Trump sent out a tweet citing new UK crime statistics and wrote that 'we must keep America safe.'

'Just out report: "United Kingdom crime rises 13% annually amid spread of Radical Islamic terror." Not good, we must keep America safe!' he wrote.

In response, Nicolas Soames, grandson of the revered former prime minister and a member of parliament affiliated with the Conservative party, used a single hashtag: '#Thenfixguncontrolyoudafttwerp'.

Trump is a known fan of Churchill, having reinstalled a bust of the prime minister in the Oval Office after moving into the White House.

The study that Trump cited, from the Office for National Statistics, did show a 13 per cent increase in crime but it did not show a link between the rise in crime and terrorism.

Out of the 664 homicides recorded in England and Wales in 2017, only 35 were a result of terror attacks. Additionally, a total of 5.2 million crimes were recorded in England and Wales over the year to June, up from 4.6 million the year before.

UK officials said that the rise was likely because of better crime reporting. Additionally, the study also covered just England and Wales and not the entirety of the UK.

Soames wasn't the only prominent British political figure who slammed Trump's tweet.

Leader of the Labour Party, Ed Miliband, tweeted: 'Spreading lies about your own country: sad. Spreading lies about others: sadder. What an absolute moron'.

'Stop misleading and spreading fear. Hate crime is up and it is fuelled by the kind of populist xenophobia you peddle,' wrote Jo Swinson, deputy leader of the UK's Liberal Democrats political party.

This is not the first time that Trump has sparked fury on his comments about terrorism and the UK. Earlier this year, he criticized London Mayor Sadiq Khan’s response to terror attacks in the city earlier this year.