Go f**k yourself, you worthless pile of steaming sh*t. You’re a spineless, cowardly, weak, gutless wonder who shouldn’t be allowed to call himself a Republican after everything he just did to f**k every conservative who put Trump into office and gave the GOP both Houses of Congress, the majority of state legislatures, governorships, and other elected positions, and have reduced Democrats to the smallest number of partisan seats they’ve ever held.

I’m sorry, but I don’t remain loyal to any man when that man’s policies no longer align with mine, and while I was willing to give you a chance under the new president – the president who was elected on a nationalist and populist message – you’ve just proven that you’re willing to allow us to be f**ked harder than a first-year inmate in a federal penitentiary. You literally gave the Democrats everything they wanted despite the fact the last election was a referendum on ALL of their policies, as every honest pundit has stated, and why?

So you and the other Republicans can “feel united” in leading the government.

Well that’s nice, snowflake. Now even our GOP leaders need f**king safe spaces so they can “feel” good when working together. You two-bit hacks have had a hundred days to become unified and push forward with a conservative agenda, and what have you done?

Absolutely nothing at all. In fact, you’ve caved on every major policy initiative proposed by President Trump, then wait until the most important part of his agenda – the growing and increasingly bloated budget – to finally present a united front against the Democrats, and what happens?

You funded Planned Parenthood, Obamacare, the Iran deal, the National Endowment for the Arts, and sanctuary cities while leaving out funding for the border wall, the military, and a host of other things President Trump wanted.

Is this what you call leadership, RYNO? Is this what you meant in November when you said you have the “opportunity of a generation” to “fundamentally change” how Washington works?

I mean, seriously, RYNO, what was the point of giving you majorities if you’re not going to do anything with them? Why did I spend over a year fighting for Republicans to get elected only for them to turn around and stab me in the back? Why in the HELL should I support you going forward when it’s evident you’re more concerned over scoring wins in the media than you are scoring wins for the people who put you in office?

Whose side are you on, anyway?

It’s time for you to go, period. You showed your weakness in failing to deliver us the repeal of Obamacare (we don’t want a replacement, just get rid of the fu**ing thing already), and it continued to show when you said you’re “working” on President Trump’s bold tax plan. Now with this deal, not only is weakness showing, but your true colors are as well.

No true conservative would have allowed such a bullshit “deal” to be made under any circumstances, yet here we are with Chuck fucking SCHUMER praising it (Yes, CHUCK SCHUMER thinks it’s a good deal, which ALONE should tell you it’s not!) and you think the rest of us should be happy about it? You didn’t get a SINGLE concession on President Trump’s agenda…NOT ONE, and we should celebrate this incredible display of incompetence???

You want us to rejoice over more of the same after how hard we had to fight to WIN THE F**KING ELECTION?!?!

Sorry, hack. That’s not how this works. If you actually believe this pile of bull excrement you’re feeding us, then you’re more delusional than the Democrats we elected you to fight.

Regardless, it’s obvious that you’re the largest road block we face in pushing forward with the aggressive mandate we sent the President to Washington with, and like any other road block, you need to be cleared. Rest assured I’ll be pressuring my congressmen and doing everything in my power to ensure that happens.

The political climate in this country is already nearly impossible to bear. The last thing we need is a turncoat working against us, but unfortunately you’ve turned out to be exactly that.

Why don’t you save us all the trouble and just switch parties already. It would be the only honest move you’ve made since taking office….

 Sincerely, one pissed off f**king American who didn’t vote for this bullshit!