We continue to hear horror stories of how Islam is infiltrating our children’s schools across the Untied States, as Muslims and liberals are working overtime to indoctrinate our kids with their disgusting propaganda. As irate parents continue to speak out about these disturbing lessons that their children are bringing home that glorifies this barbaric sixth century religion, now parents in New York are ringing alarm bells after what the New York State Education Department is now incorporating into their lesson plan that instructs high school students that it’s perfectly cool to blow themselves up as a suicide bomber for Allah.

The Blaze was the first to expose how New York educators are promoting a lesson called “Dying to be a Martyr,” where children learn all about the plight of Muslims who decide to go on suicide missions to kill people who don’t agree with their religion.  The lesson features several video interviews with Muslim terrorists, where the plan is outrageously offered to teachers through the taxpayer-funded PBS’ “LearningMedia” website. The way it works is teachers can access the plan through PBS’ website for free, and then present it to their high school students. The lesson does nothing to decry the radical and violent actions of these suicide bombers, but glorifies it.

A new investigation into the “Dying to be a Martyr” PBS lesson plan and its origins show the plan was developed in New York state and continued for many years to be promoted by the New York State Education Department on its website.

“There are no instructions in the lesson plan for teachers to denounce these views and no videos are featured showing the Israeli response,” The Blaze Reported.

“Among the other biased aspects of the lesson plan are instructions for teachers to ‘Check for understanding by asking students to respond to the focus question. (Mohammed, feels he would rather die and by a martyr than live his life, sees his life as hollow—in contrast he sees Israelis as happy, going out, having fun, traveling.) Ask your students why Mohammed may feel that way (Answers may include: Palestinians have less land, fewer privileges, cannot come and go as they please.)’”

What’s even more disturbing is that the New York State Education Department (NYSED) has been promoting this lesson plan for almost a decade until recently being caught and called out for it.  They quickly tried to cover their tracks, removing the lesson plan from the NYSED website. However the plan is still available to students on another NYSED website, under a lesson titled “Story of Islam: A History of the World’s Most Misunderstood Faith.” Predictably, NYSED ignored The Blaze’s request for comments about the indoctrination they’re forcing onto their students.

This alarming story comes right on the heels of a story we brought you last week where Marine veteran was banned from his daughter’s graduation after calling out the school board for trying to indoctrinate his daughter with lessons on Islam. We previously reported:

John Kevin Wood says his daughter’s school has banned him from campus for more than a year, illegally punishing him for raising objections to classroom lessons about Islam. Now he’s gone to court for help, asking a judge to remove the ban so he can watch his daughter graduate from high school.

“She’s in the final semester of her senior year, and as it stands right now, she’s going to have to go through that life experience without her dad there,” said Kate Oliveri, a lawyer from the Michigan-based Thomas More Law Center who is representing the Wood family.

The dispute dates to October 2014, when Wood’s daughter showed him several assignments for her 11th grade World History class at La Plata High in Charles County, Md.

She had been asked to memorize the Five Pillars of Islam. She had been asked to write and recite the shahada, the Muslim statement of faith: There is no God but Allah, and Muhammad is the messenger of Allah. She had been taught, according to school papers submitted to federal court, that most Muslims’ faith is “stronger than the average Christian.”

We must remain as vigilant as ever as these Muslim idiots are not only physically invading our countries, but are infiltrating our societies through our education and government systems as well. Always make sure you know what your children are learning at school when it comes to Islam because liberals are working tirelessly to indoctrinate our kids with this BS, as their ridiculous love affair with Muslim terrorists continues to blossom.