We have a three pronged attack aiming to reverse the results of last November’s election.

First, comes the Government Party, let’s call them the Republicrats, made up of the perpetually re-elected hacks who infest the capital of the world.

Second, is the deep state cancer that infects the federal bureaucracy.

And third, are the one world social democrats masquerading as journalists.

These three give their middle finger to America as they point their index fingers at President Trump.

They accuse him of colluding with the Russians to steal the last election.

And all the while they’re colluding with leakers committing felonies and endangering American security in an effort to overthrow the President.

A few things to illustrate the problem: According to Adam Kredo of the Washington Free Beacon:

A new wave of leaks targeting the Trump administration has actively endangered ongoing intelligence and military operations being conducted by the United States and its allies, sparking anger and concern inside and outside the White House, according to multiple conversations with senior U.S. officials intimately familiar with the situation. The classified leaks, which are being handed to sympathetic journalists by former Obama administration officials who left the government and by holdovers still serving in the Trump administration, have damaged a number of ongoing operations, ranging from American efforts to prevent Russian infiltration of the United States to Israeli efforts against ISIS, sources said.

According to Theodore Bunker of Newsmax:

The FBI has seized smashed hard drives from the home of a Democratic House staffer an aide to Debbie Wasserman Schultz, The Daily Caller reported. Imran Awan, a longtime IT aide of Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz, D-Fla., is under investigation for allegedly stealing equipment and improperly accessing the House IT network, while working in Congress. Shortly after the case went public, Awan moved out of his home in Lorton, Virginia, renting it eventually to a couple, one a Marine Corps veteran and one a Navy Officer. The renters told The Daily Caller they found "wireless routers, hard drives that look like they tried to destroy, laptops, [and] a lot of brand new expensive toner." They called the Naval Criminal Investigative Service, which coordinated with the FBI and Capitol Police to seize the equipment. "It was in the garage. They recycled cabinets and lined them along the walls. They left in a huge hurry," the unnamed Marine, who spoke under the condition of anonymity out of concern for his wife's career, told The Daily Caller. "It looks like government-issued equipment. We turned that stuff over."

Democratic Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz has admitted that she violated official information security policy – blaming the chief administrative officer in the House of Representatives for not stopping her, the Daily Caller reports.

According to John Solomon of The Hill:

The National Security Agency and FBI violated specific civil liberty protections during the Obama administration by improperly searching and disseminating raw intelligence on Americans or failing to promptly delete unauthorized intercepts, according to newly declassified memos that provide some of the richest detail to date on the spy agencies’ ability to obey their own rules. The Hill reviewed the new ACLU documents as well as compliance memos released by the NSA inspector general and identified more than 90 incidents where violations specifically cited an impact on Americans. Many incidents involved multiple persons, multiple violations or extended periods of time. For instance, the government admitted improperly searching the NSA’s foreign intercept data on multiple occasions, including one instance in which an analyst ran the same search query about an American “every work day” for a period between 2013 and 2014.

According to John Solomon of The Hill:

The chairman of the House Intelligence Committee is accusing top political aides of President Obama of making hundreds of requests during the 2016 presidential race to unmask the names of Americans in intelligence reports, including Trump transition officials. Intelligence Chairman Devin Nunes (R-Calif.), in a letter to the Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats, said the requests were made without specific justifications on why the information was needed. “We have found evidence that current and former government officials had easy access to U.S. person information and that it is possible that they used this information to achieve partisan political purposes, including the selective, anonymous leaking of such information,” Nunes wrote in the letter to Coats.

The Obama 'Demasking' Scandal is not just growing, it's surging. Every day more comes to light showing how the Obama administration, as it headed for the showers, did their best to disseminate classified information as far afield as possible.

Of course, the ABCNBCCBSPBSCNNMASNBCNPR Cartel isn’t going to tell the low-information voters anything about it and of course, they won’t do any research of their own. So I guess it’s just between you and I and the millions who care to look.

According to Fred Fleitz of Newsmax:

You wouldn’t know it from the mainstream media, but the scandal of Obama officials weaponizing U.S. intelligence to collect against their political enemies is not just growing, it's surging. There have been several damning reports over the last few weeks that Obama officials made hundreds of requests to "demask" the names of Trump campaign and transition officials from intelligence reports. Some of these demasked names were leaked to the press to hurt Mr. Trump politically before and after the election.

And all this cloak and dagger skullduggery is leading up to one thing, the impeachment of President Trump.

Since they’ve known from the beginning there was no collusion between the President and the Russians they have to find another way to thread the needle.

The Special Counsel witch-hunt is frantically searching day and night to find anything to call a crime so they can get the ball rolling. And the political savants in Congress are doing their bit too.

They’re attempting to pass a bill, hopefully for them, with a veto proof majority that makes it a crime for the President to fire the Special Counsel.

This is a replay of the same strategy used to impeach President Andrew Johnson.

In Johnson’s case, it was the Tenure of Office Act.

The action of President Johnson that led directly to his impeachment was his deliberate violation of the Tenure of Office Act.

The Tenure of Office Act was repealed in 1887. In 1926, the Supreme Court ruled that it was unconstitutional even though it had been repealed almost 40 years before.

So here we go again. How can it possibly make sense to pass a law saying that the head of the executive branch is committing a crime to fire someone who works for the executive branch?

If there is no crime they’ll manufacture one.

According to Joe Crowe of Newsmax:

If for this or any other reason the House impeaches and the Senate removes President Trump, we Deplorables out here in fly over country may see this whole election business for a sham.

If we dare to elect someone who isn’t one of the self-appointed crooked lawyers whose conflicts of interest are aided and abetted by the special interests the big bi-coastal pajama boys will just overturn our choice and go back to business as usual. Or so they think.