President Donald Trump has been upping the rhetoric with North Korea for several weeks, highlighting how diplomacy has failed for years and that military options may be the only avenue left.

On Saturday, Trump went on Twitter and fired off a series of cryptic tweets about North Korea, the Washington Examiner reported. Of particular interest were five words at the end of the tweet storm.

“Only one thing will work!” were the words that drew the most attention.

“Presidents and their administrations have been talking to North Korea for 25 years, agreements made and massive amounts of money paid hasn’t worked, agreements violated before the ink was dry, makings fools of U.S. negotiators. Sorry, but only one thing will work,” read the full statement, written over two tweets.

Trump’s “only one thing” statement would imply that the only thing is military action. Trump’s statement noted that diplomacy, negotiations and agreements had failed. The only thing that wasn’t on that list was military action.

This tweet following Trump’s equally cryptic statement on Thursday evening where he stated that “maybe it’s the calm before the storm” during a meeting with military personnel, The Washington Post reported.

On Monday morning, Trump doubled down on his insistence that nothing had worked with North Korea in another tweet — albeit one without any sort of cryptic warning.

“Our country has been unsuccessfully dealing with North Korea for 25 years, giving billions of dollars & getting nothing. Policy didn’t work!” he wrote.

Trump has long stated that he is prepared to take military action against North Korea if that is what it takes to stop them firing nuclear weapons at the United States.

Hos statements could indicate that we are on the edge of military conflict with North Korea, or it could just be rhetoric aimed at getting North Korea to back down.

Ultimately all we can do is wait and see.

Share this on Facebook and Twitter and let us know what you think President Trump’s tweet meant.