During Attorney General Jeff Sessions’ confirmation hearing, he was asked if he met with any Russians in the context of his being a Trump surrogate during the campaign.

Sessions said no, meaning he hadn’t talked with any Russians on behalf of the campaign or talked about sanctions.

But Democrats, including Sen. Claire McCaskill, excoriated him after he later talked about a couple of meetings he had with the Russian ambassador as a Senator.

Here’s what McCaskill said, in an effort to attack Sessions.

Except, of course, that wasn’t true.

[McCaskill said this] even though she had previously announced she had both a call and a meeting with Kislyak. It was further reported last week that, in addition to the announced meetings, McCaskill attended a black-tie reception at Kislyak’s house and used an undisclosed family foundation to donate to a group that Kislyak chairs.

And, unlike Sessions who could say that he was responding about campaign related contacts and in the middle of testimony, McCaskill’s comments to attack Sessions were made with no such cover and all the time in the world to consider her words.

So some local Missouri Republicans turned the tables on McCaskills and the Democrats.

“Senator McCaskill, do you care to comment on why you lied to Missourians about meeting with the Russian ambassador?” asked a member of the state party, who was ignored by McCaskill. The sign quoted McCaskill’s initial lie that she had “no call or meeting w/ Russian ambassador.” Other signs brought by the party read “Comrade Claire, I hope you enjoyed the caviar, Love Sergey,” an apparent reference to the black-tie reception McCaskill attended at Kislyak’s residence.

The Missouri Republicans said they were just trying to point out McCaskill’s inability to “get her stories straight,” much like two-time failed Democratic presidential candidate Hilary Clinton.

The group said its goal with the “Comrade Claire” project was to highlight McCaskill’s general dishonesty. “All of this ties into an even bigger picture that we hoped to raise questions about, which is that she hasn’t just been dishonest about contact with the Russian ambassador—she’s also dishonest about being a moderate,” said Missouri GOP communications director Keelie Broom. “She cannot call herself a moderate if she voted with Barack Obama 93 percent of the time and Elizabeth Warren 86 percent.”