Encouraging news from 538: Calm Down About Those Virginia Polls, Folks

A Monmouth University poll released Tuesday generated a ton of headlines. It found Republican Ed Gillespie leading the Virginia gubernatorial race by 1 percentage point, 48 percent to 47 percent. Democrat Ralph Northam has led in most surveys of the race, and if Republicans win Virginia with President Trump so unpopular, you can expect a full-blown freakout among Democrats. Adding to the confusion: Quinnipiac University released a poll on Wednesday showing Northam up 14 percentage points, 53 percent to 39 percent. So what the heck is going on in the Virginia governor’s race? Nothing. The split between the Monmouth and Quinnipiac results is big, but it’s not unnatural. In fact, it’s a sign that pollsters are doing their job. The October average of Virginia gubernatorial surveys has Northam leading Gillespie by 7 percentage points, 50 percent to 43 percent With an average Northam lead of about 7 points, sampling error alone+/- 7 and 8 percentage points for the margin separating the two candidates. (Most pollsters report the margin of error for individual candidates, not the difference between them. The difference between them has a margin of error of approximately double that of margin of error for each candidate.)

we have rich people on our side too and they are just as motivated as us.  By which I mean VERY!

A top Democratic donor has officially launched a campaign to impeach President Trump after sending letters to lawmakers and governors around the country asking them to take action against the "dangerous" president. Tom Steyer, a billionaire environmentalist who endorsed Hillary Clinton in the 2016 presidential race, has created the website Need to Impeach, which asks for signatures on a petition to lawmakers. "He's brought us to the brink of nuclear war, obstructed justice at the FBI, and in direct violation of the Constitution, he's taken money from foreign governments and threatened to shut down news organizations that report the truth," Steyer said in the campaign video. "If that isn't the case for impeaching and removing a dangerous president, then what has our government become?" he added.

A federal judge on Thursday shot down former sheriff Joe Arpaio’s bid to sweep his criminal record clean. Arpaio, the controversial former lawman in Arizona’s Maricopa County, was granted a pardon by President Trump on Aug. 25. He had been found guilty of criminal contempt of a federal court order after a five-day bench trial earlier this year and faced the possibility of up to six months in jail. After the pardon, the 85-year-old Arpaio petitioned the court to clear his record and prevent the ruling from being used in future litigation. The case raised the novel question of how far a presidential pardon actually reaches. In her ruling, U.S. District Judge Susan R. Bolton said the pardon only freed Arpaio from possible punishment. In a four-page order offering a check on the president’s executive power, Bolton wrote that a pardon could not erase the facts of the case. “The power to pardon is an executive prerogative of mercy, not of judicial recordkeeping,” Bolton wrote in the decision. “To vacate all rulings in this case would run afoul of this important distinction. The Court found Defendant guilty of criminal contempt.”

this is great because it makes it harder for them to push their far right agenda through!

The president this week reversed course on a bipartisan health-care deal, first encouraging Sen. Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.) in private to negotiate a deal, then coming out against the agreement and seemingly stopping it cold. President Trump's mixed messaging is increasingly throwing a curveball into negotiations on Capitol Hill, leaving lawmakers struggling to keep up with his changing opinions. It was just the latest example in what’s become a familiar cycle on Capitol Hill: Senators believe they and Trump are on the same page, only to find out — sometimes hours later and frequently through tweets — that the president has changed his mind.

 

 After throwing a celebration on the White House lawn after the House approved its ObamaCare repeal bill, Trump weeks later called the legislation “mean.”

 

 Graham, asked at the time about the comments, said, “If you're looking for political cover from the White House, I'm not sure they're going to give it to you.” Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) and House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) were left flat-footed when Trump agreed with Democrats on a three-month government funding and debt-ceiling deal in September, even though GOP leadership wanted a longer 18-month agreement.

What’s that?  Were you thinking that wasn’t quite enough dissension and bad feelings between Trump and the Rs?  We need a little more bad blood to slow them down even more?  Here you go: Paul Ryan used a comedy routine to say what he really thinks about Donald Trump

"Enough with the applause ... You sound like the Cabinet when Donald Trump walks into the room." "I don't think I've seen this many New York liberals, this many Wall Street CEOs in one room since my last visit to the White House." "I know why Chuck [Schumer] has been so hard on President Trump. It's not ideological; Chuck is just mad he lost his top donor." On Trump's remarks to the dinner last year: "Some said it was unbecoming of a public figure and they said that his comments were offensive. Well, thank God he's learned his lesson." "The truth is, the press absolutely misunderstands and never records the big accomplishments of the White House ... Look at all the new jobs the president has created — just among the White House staff." "Every morning I wake up in my office and I scroll through Twitter to see which tweets I will have to pretend I didn't see later on." "Every afternoon former Speaker John Boehner calls me up, not to give advice, just to laugh."

Good thing Trump has such a great sense of humor about himself!  He’ll love the jokes at his expense!  Just LOVE them!  Have fun trying to work together to get stuff done, boys!

On Nov. 9, 2016, millions of Americans woke up with a crushing sense that something was terribly wrong with their country. Donald Trump’s election inspired such moral revulsion and political outrage that by that afternoon, parts of the American electorate had taken to calling themselves “the resistance,” evoking the guerrillas who took to the hills and fought the Nazis during World War II. Just a day before, many of these same people were enthusiastically casting their ballots for a centrist Democrat; suddenly they were self-styled revolutionaries. The years since the 2008 financial crisis have seen a wave of protest movements, including Occupy, Black Lives Matter and immigrant rights campaigns. What’s different now — and what’s encouraging — is that new people are getting involved, those for whom the status quo before Mr. Trump’s arrival in the White House didn’t necessarily seem so bad. One of the biggest groups to emerge from the new wave of “resisters” is Indivisible, which was founded by a few liberal former congressional staffers and says it wants to borrow tactics from the Tea Party, as it did when it inspired the raucous protests at town hall meetings that helped turn the tide against Obamacare repeal. This enthusiasm has gotten the traditional Democratic donors and fund-raisers excited: From longstanding groups like Democracy Alliance to liberal tech entrepreneurs, money is pouring into Indivisible and similar organizations. But often these groups have focused on influencing Democrats or getting them elected (sometimes successfully, sometimes not) rather than building a broader movement. “Many people that become deeply discontent with the status quo have some moment in their lives when all of a sudden they realize that what they’ve been taught are lies,” said Stuart McIntyre, a 27-year-old activist with the Ohio Organizing Collaborative, an umbrella group with much of the membership coming from black-led organizations in Ohio’s cities that has also seen an influx of new members since the election. “In my experience, a lot of people of color have that ‘mirror moment’ when they’re children. Among left-wing groups, a lot of people maybe have that moment in college. But for a lot of middle-class people, and for a lot of white Americans, that mirror moment is actually happening right now.” That’s a good thing. “I’m looking for converts rather than for traitors,” Mr. McIntyre said. “I want our movement to be as big as possible.”

Lawrence O’Donnell is on our side and he is AWESOME

‘Why don’t you like me, dog?’: Black protester hugs neo-Nazi outside Richard Spencer speech

In video uploaded to Twitter, a black man confronted a neo-Nazi outside of white nationalist Richard Spencer’s speech on Thursday and stunned him — but not with a punch. According to WGN, 31-year-old Aaron Alex Courtney is seen in the video hugging the man and asking, “Why don’t you like me, dog?” According to Courtney, he was initially infuriated by the man, but claimed he had a better idea than assaulting him verbally,. “I asked him, ‘Why do you hate me? What is it about me? Is it my skin color? My history? My dreadlocks?” Courtney recalled. “I reached over and the third time, he wrapped his arms around me, and I heard God whisper in my ear, ‘You changed his life,’” Courtney explained. “Why do you hate me?” Courtney asked once again, to which the man replied, “I don’t know.”

So, in my real life, I am an associate professor of social psychology.

My graduate students and I are doing a research project and we are interested in collecting data from people who were upset about the election of Donald Trump.

Maybe that is some of you?  ;-)

I would be very grateful if could fill out our questionnaires.  It takes about 20 minutes.  Some of it may feel a bit repetitive, but that is because there are numerous scales in there and some of them have similar questions.  Just answer as best you can — there are no right or wrong answers.

Why should you fill out the questionnaires? Well first, because **SCIENCE** is real and important :-)  Second, because you would be helping us understand factors that may impact how people deal with difficult life events. And finally, because we will be giving away $200 to participants!  We will pick two people randomly from all who participate and they will each get a $100 visa gift card!  Winner winner, chicken dinner!  Also, for what it is worth, you would be helping me out a lot  <3

Thanks so much.  This is the link if you are interested and able.

Have a great weekend everyone :-)  See you Monday!