Democrats are only 8 points behind in Alabama’s Senate race. Last year they lost by 29.

Democrats dreaming of an improbable steal of an Alabama Senate seat in December just got a promising piece of evidence. On Tuesday, a new poll from the firm JMC Analytics showed Democrat Doug Jones 8 points behind Republican nominee Roy Moore Vox’s Matt Yglesias has urged national Democrats to go all-in on Alabama, and noted again on Tuesday that there aren’t many other elections this year where liberals can direct their anti-Trump energies. Meanwhile, the poll contained warning signs for Republicans nationally. At the Washington Examiner, David Drucker notes that the survey showed the GOP only ahead 4 points on the Alabama “generic ballot” — which asks whether voters simply prefer a Democrat or a Republican. That’s a remarkably small lead for Alabama. “The closer generic margin is indicative of a more challenging partisan environment [for Republicans] next year," John Couvillon, the pollster who runs JMC Analytics, told Drucker. "Or let me put it this way: If Alabama does not have a 60 percent Republican tilt to it ... that would be disastrous in less conservative states next fall.”

Democratic nominee Phil Murphy leads Republican Kim Guadagno by 14 points in the race for New Jersey governor, according to a Monmouth University Poll released Tuesday. Murphy has the support of 51 percent of likely voters, while Guadagno has the backing of 37 percent, the poll found. Third-party candidates recorded support of just 2 percent, while another 9 percent of voters said they were undecided. The margin, while narrower than the 20-plus-point spreads recorded in other recent polls, is still massive and may be insurmountable for Guadagno, said Patrick Murray, director of the Monmouth University Polling Institute.

A new poll shows that most Americans are not keen at all about America First. Yesterday the Chicago Council on Global Affairs released its first in-depth poll about what Americans think about America first  The council’s survey finds that Trump’s most fervent supporters solidly support his views on these issues, but Republicans with less favorable impressions of the president are far less enthusiastic and are more closely aligned in their attitudes with the overall population. The survey also underscores the degree to which Trump, despite the bully pulpit of the White House, has been unable to shift public opinion in his direction on foreign policy issues. In fact, the opposite has occurred. Public attitudes have moved away from a number of the positions he espoused during his campaign and since

Kennedy’s Vote Is in Play on Voting Maps Warped by Politics

Justice Anthony M. Kennedy has long been troubled by extreme partisan gerrymandering, where the party in power draws voting districts to give itself a lopsided advantage in elections. But he has never found a satisfactory way to determine when voting maps are so warped by politics that they cross a constitutional line. After spirited Supreme Court arguments on Tuesday, there was reason to think Justice Kennedy may be ready to join the court’s more liberal members in a groundbreaking decision that could reshape American democracy by letting courts determine when lawmakers have gone too far. Justice Kennedy asked skeptical questions of lawyers defending a Wisconsin legislative map that gave Republicans many more seats in the State Assembly than their statewide vote tallies would have predicted. He asked no questions of the lawyer representing the Democratic voters challenging the map.

A policy solution to mass shootings like the one that claimed 59 lives Sunday night in Las Vegas is not unattainable, Sen. Chris Murphy wrote Monday night in The Washington Post, but will require a reexamination of the factors that he suggested have thus far kept Congress from acting. Gun control legislation is not the unattainable goal that many believe it to be, Murphy (D-Conn.) wrote in his op-ed, and the pro-gun rights lobby is not the all-powerful force that many fear it to be.

Mueller Tasks an Adviser With Getting Ahead of Pre-Emptive Pardons

U.S. Special Counsel Robert Mueller has a distinctly modern problem. The president, judging by his tweets, could try to pardon people in his circle even before prosecutors charge anyone with a crime. Mueller’s all-star team of prosecutors, with expertise in money laundering and foreign bribery, has an answer to that. He’s Michael Dreeben, a bookish career government lawyer with more than 100 Supreme Court appearances under his belt. Acting as Mueller’s top legal counsel, Dreeben has been researching past pardons and determining what, if any, limits exist, according to a person familiar with the matter. Dreeben’s broader brief is to make sure the special counsel’s prosecutorial moves are legally airtight. That could include anything from strategizing on novel interpretations of criminal law to making sure the recent search warrant on ex-campaign adviser Paul Manafort’s home would stand up to an appeal. "He’s seen every criminal case of any consequence in the last 20 years," said Kathryn Ruemmler of Latham & Watkins LLP, who served as White House counsel under President Barack Obama. "If you wanted to do a no-knock warrant, he’d be a great guy to consult with to determine if you were exposing yourself.”

In response to the burgeoning Russia probe, President Trump bases his claim that it is all a “hoax” on two arguments, both of which we have come to see are flagrantly false. First, Trump has promised he had no contact with Russians during the campaign. No business at all, he claims. We know that’s not true because the Trump Organization actively pursued a deal for a Trump Tower in Moscow. We know that his son-in-law, his son and a top campaign aide met in Trump Tower with Russian officials. We recently learned that ex-campaign chairman Paul Manafort was offering private briefings for a Russian oligarch.  The second pillar holding up Trump’s contention that this is all a “hoax” is that Russia didn’t meddle on his behalf. That laughable assertion should have been dismissed out of hand when WikiLeaks released emails damaging to Hillary Clinton in the days leading up to the election. The notion that Russia wasn’t out to help Trump has been further discredited with each revelation about the extent of Russian disinformation, which came not only in the form of attacks on Clinton but also in social media that mirrored Trump’s own efforts to spur racial animosity and play on white grievance.  One can imagine why Trump was so agitated by an investigation that sought both to uncover his Russia connections and to examine his business dealings. That investigation was and remains a sword of Damocles hovering over his presidency.

Amazingly, Republicans may already be screwing up tax reform

When Republicans’ effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act turned into one of the great legislative failures of modern times, it was hard to be completely surprised. They never really cared about the substance of health care and had done no serious preparation for the moment when they’d finally have a chance to repeal the law, so their bumbling and internal chaos could have been foreseen. What’s far more shocking, however, is that they could be heading for a similar screw-up on the issue that is nearest and dearest to their hearts: tax cuts. It’s truly remarkable to see. This is the issue they’re supposed to know backwards and forwards, the one policy area they all grasp, the thing that motivates and drives them. They had to be forced against their will to learn about health care (and most of them couldn’t be bothered), but they should be able to put together a terrific tax cut smoothly and quickly, right? Well, no. In fact, the problems are already starting.

Pence’s chief of staff floats ‘purge’ of anti-Trump Republicans to wealthy donors

Spoiler alert: His priorities won’t be passed because you all suck at this AND regardless of whether they do or don’t *we are going to OWN you in the midterms* because we have the motivation and the momentum.  We will not rest until we win.  And we will win.

The inspector general for the Interior Department has opened an investigation into Secretary Ryan Zinke’s travel during seven months in office, from his use of taxpayer-funded charter and military planes to his mixing of official trips with political appearances. Nancy K. DiPaolo, a spokesperson for Deputy Inspector General Mary Kendall, described a broad investigation into Zinke’s “travel in general,” including “modes of travel, costs and schedules.” “It’s not just one trip,” she said. “It’s seven months of travel.” She said the probe was prompted by numerous complaints from the public and in recent newspaper articles. Reps. Raúl M. Grijalva (Ariz.) and A. Donald McEachin (Va.), the top Democrats, respectively, on the House Committee on Natural Resources and the panel’s subcommittee on oversight and investigations, also requested an investigation. Zinke, a former Navy SEAL commander and former congressman from Montana, is one of several Trump administration Cabinet secretaries whose travel is under scrutiny. Tom Price, another former member of Congress who was Secretary of Health and Human Services, resigned Friday after taking at least $400,000 in chartered flights at taxpayer expense. The watchdog for the Environmental Protection Agency also is investigating agency head Scott Pruitt’s frequent travels to his home state of Oklahoma.

Have a great Wednesday everyone.  Take care of yourselves and keep up the fight for our democracy!