Sometimes, a name, a word, or an opinion, doesn’t have anything to do with race, but liberals just don’t see the world that way.

In Portland, Oregon, the land of hipsters, three elementary schools are losing their names and receiving new ones. Why? Because they were named after a family whose name sounded like something bad.

Lynch Meadows, Lynch Wood, and Lynch View elementary school were all named after the Lynch family, which donated land more than 100 years ago to help with the creation of the school, according to The Oregonian.

However, “Lynch” and “lynch,” as in the violent term for a mob-justice murder, are not being discerned too well by some families, the Oregonian reported.

“There were an increasing amount of questions and some complaints from families of color around the name,” said Centennial School District Superintendent Paul Coakley according to the Oregonian.

“Our diversity is increasing every year, with families coming in from Northeast Portland and out of state, so (the names) needed to be looked at,” Coakley said.

Without having to dig any further, we can take apart his so-called “point” pretty easily. There are two things here.

First of all, the Lynch family has nothing to do with the awful act of lynching, as The Oregonian confirms. That’s already a sufficient argument against this move. They aren’t linked. The end. But, there’s a second thing that really takes the argument off of its rails.

If the “Lynch” on an elementary school at any point sent out some sort of racist, subliminal message to its students and passersby, why did it have to be looked at when and only when diversity hit some sort of politically-correct critical mass?

It is an idiotic argument made by sensitive people who would rather see the kindness of a family forgotten than a world that is not ruled by its emotions. If this is the opinion of those on the left, the left has now opened the door for names to be racist.

Finally, have the good liberals of Portland and elsewhere in this great country of ours forgotten that the name of the attorney general of the United States, the one appointed by Barack Obama, the first black president of the United States, also happened to be Lynch?

As in Loretta Lynch. The Oregon liberals might have forgotten it, but it’s doubtful Bill and Hillary Clinton ever will.

What do you think? Please share this story on Facebook and Twitter and let us know.