The Yankees were just a few feet away from another dramatic comeback Thursday night — but this time Jacoby Ellsbury was thrown out at the plate after Gary Sanchez’s single to left to end a 3-2 loss to the Astros at the Stadium.

Against Houston closer Ken Giles, an Aaron Hicks walk and a single by Ellsbury put the tying runs on first and third with two out in the ninth inning. Ellsbury swiped second, and when Sanchez hit a hard smash to left, third base coach Joe Espada decided to test left fielder Jake Marisnick’s arm.

Dallas Keuchel tormented the Yankees for six innings as they lost a second straight to drop them into second place in the AL East behind the Orioles, who were rained out in Washington.

Keuchel entered the game 4-2 with a 1.42 ERA in six career starts against the Yankees, but was coming off his worst outing of the season, when he surrendered five runs in eight innings to the Angels.

The Yankees lineup, however, never quite figured him out on a chilly night in The Bronx, making it tough for Michael Pineda, who allowed three runs in 6 ²/₃ innings in the defeat.

The matchup between the teams who came into the night with the best records in the majors started poorly for Pineda and the Yankees.

Josh Reddick reached on a one-out double in the first inning, when Didi Gregorius couldn’t get to the popup to shallow center and a charging Ellsbury somehow failed to call him off to make the play.

Chase Headley made a nice play on Jose Altuve’s grounder down the third-base line to get the second out, but Ellsbury’s bad play came back to haunt the Yankees when Carlos Correa crushed a two-run homer to right-center on a 2-0 pitch. It was Correa’s third homer in nine career at-bats against Pineda.

Pineda rebounded to retire the next 10 of 11 batters he faced — until Alex Bregman’s double in the fifth. But Keuchel was better. The Yankees didn’t hit a ball out of the infield until Chris Carter hit a hard grounder through the left side with one out in the third.

 George Springer’s two-out single drove in Norichika Aoki for the Astros to make it 3-0 in the fifth.

Keuchel needed just 43 pitches to get through four innings, but he began to battle with his control in the middle innings.

The Yankees rallied for an unearned run in the bottom of the fifth — with some help from Houston’s defense. Headley grounded to second with one out, but first baseman Yuli Gurriel somehow dropped Altuve’s perfect throw.

Gregorius followed with a single to right to put runners on the corners for Hicks, who walked to load the bases.

Carter then whiffed on a 3-2 change-up for the second out. Ellsbury followed by reaching on a catcher’s interference, scoring Headley for the Yankees’ lone run versus Keuchel.

Sanchez hit a slow grounder to third, but Bregman charged and made the play to end a 30-pitch inning for Keuchel.

After Matt Holliday opened the bottom of the sixth by lacing a single to left, Starlin Castro lined one off the left field wall to set up first and third, but Keuchel responded by striking out Aaron Judge, Headley and Gregorius — all on offspeed pitches — to prevent another run from scoring.

Still, the Yankees’ patience at the plate drove up Keuchel’s pitch count, and he was gone after six innings and 97 pitches.

It proved not to matter, because right-hander Chris Devenski came on to toss two scoreless innings in relief and the Yankees were unable to come back. In the eighth, Judge drew a two-out walk and stole second, but Headley struck out looking on a 3-2 pitch that appeared to be high.