April arrives, and like seasons, brings cherry blossoms to bloom in Washington D.C.

One side or another deflowers the hopes of Liberty or the Peace  Movement.

Trump has embraced warfare and the welfare state.

The swamp will take away the bloom from the wild Irish rose.

When it comes to American political parties, I can barely tell them apart.

Perhaps it’s due to the distance I allow myself from the modern day political orgy.

Maybe it’s because I look at end results…

Bloated federal beasts with a vast military presence in some 150+ countries.  It grew under Nobel Peace Prize winner Obama. President Obama practiced regime change, as did Bush #2, Bill, and Papa Bush.

All woo the poor or the aged with entitlements.

The CIA, the NSA, et. al, all march along a growth path regardless of Administration. And everybody was inside the Neocon, bloodthirsty, corrupt, welfare state power whore they call Hillary.

So how to tell them apart? Democrats and Republicans may seem like big-boned, big-throated Brits belting out ballads for mass consumption. Adele would be the one with big boobs.  Sam Smith the one with small boobs.

Over time they are predictable, like a free market Marco Rubio. He talks Liberty, but little Marco always gets a big boner when he pushes tough military talk with Russia. That’s what’s inside of him.

By my reckoning, Washington DC all seem like those Russian Matryoshka dolls.

If you didn’t know them well, you might say Sam Smith is Adele. Big and white Anglos with a sense of melodrama.That’s how I seek Paul Ryan and the mainstream Republican establishment. Whole Lotta Love inside that group for the end result regarding the shadow long term game plan.

As for Ryan, he has a preference for the insurance lobbyist types. Most Democrats today do dastardly deeds for Octogenarian men, specifically named George Soros.

The whole lot of them are like high-end prostitutes.  When the price is met, no Act is beneath them. It helps to not kiss your patron or look in their constituent’s eyes.

When an outsider President comes to town, no one can figure out who is inside him.  It seems like no one is inside Trump, but he is willing to walk both sides of the street to get inside whatever he can. This month he bites his right wing support for pitiful Democrat votes…

Those that label him vile things.

John McCain is determined to finish his life in pursuit of more warfare.  We know McCain is deep inside the life-long bachelor Lindsey Graham, a man surely blackmailed by some alphabet agency somewhere. They are always up for a confrontation with Russia or Assad or Khadaffi, like tigers on vasoline.

And like Rubio,  McCain and Graham prefer taking it from defense companies, if not octogenarians. All the old dudes, carry the news.

Speaker Paul Ryan may have burrowed just far enough into Trump’s inner circle to lead a losing health care battle like some pervert with a gerbil to the sounds of Adele’s Running in the Deep. (“Your gonna wish you had never met me”)

There must be some general wink or secret handshake that puts the Military Industrial Complex in bed with the Welfare State like putting a drunk John Boehner gets inside Nancy Pelosi.

When we were young, we thought someone like Ron Paul could change the world. End the empire, bring peace and prosperity.

Perhaps Susan Boyle awkwardly gets inside Liberty, where I dream a dream that Rand Paul, using The Trump Admin, stops the madness-the madness of Perpetual War and a Surveillance State that knows no borders nor 4th Amendment.

The madness that has us protect NATO and pay for it.

The NSA madness, where basically the whole world is wiretapped, only to be accessed at a later date. The No-Knock Policies of an increasingly militarized police force and funded by civil asset forfeiture.

And of course, the American bases around the world with American troops now in over 150+ Countries – our drone warfare in several countries without trial nor indeed protection for bystanders under 16 year old US Congressional Authority.

I know I’m not the only one.