This is explosive and you will absolutely not read about it in the establishment media. It was however reported in one of the most respected conservative media outlets in America, the Washington Examiner – the “conservative Washington Post.”

The report is from the Examiner’s chief political correspondent, Byron York. Well known in the corridors of power for being an impartial voice of reason. A dogged truth teller.

And what he said just knocked Bob Mueller right off his broom and officially ended the Trump witch hunt.

He started off by noting that the tenor and tone of Mueller’s witch hunt has changed. Away from Trump and towards other actors.

It is a curious shift and not reported by the media so York went to his Congressional sources for to find out why – these are leading, powerful politicians mind you and while they chose to remain anonymous for obvious reasons, York’s credibility has never been questioned so there is no reason to doubt him.

“Because that’s where the evidence is going,” one lawmaker who follows the matter closely told me in a text exchange. “I mean, things could always change, but that observation is just the reality of the situation right now, as I see it.”

“Because they’ve been spinning their wheels on something for which evidence has yet to emerge,” said another lawmaker.

“I think it’s 1) the Mueller probe means that stuff [allegations of collusion] is sort of in his wheelhouse now,” said yet another lawmaker, “and 2) I think there’s recognition that Trump himself is unlikely to be implicated in this.”

Correct. The investigation is looking at Russia and what they did independent of Trump. You would think the media would report this?

Adding credence to his report of a witch hunt that has no proof is none other than CNN’s Chris Cuomo. Who said when smacking Adam Schiff around.

“If it was so obvious, it if were so egregious, you should have known by now,” he said to a stunned Adam Schiff. Who stammered some nonsense saying it is a complex and complicated issue.

In Congress, complexity is the enemy of the truth and the key weapon the dishonest politicians use to keep us in the dark.

Won’t work.  Not this time. Share if you agree that Bob Mueller just got knocked of his broom.