President Trump's approval rating dipped to its lowest yet in the NBC News/Wall Street Journal survey, a modern record low for a president who's been in office just over nine months.

Pollsters found that just 38 per cent of Americans approve of Trump, compared to 58 per cent who disapprove – with Trump's previous low being the 39 per cent approval rating he received from Americans in May.

At this point in their presidencies, President Barack Obama had a 51 per cent approval rating and President Bill Clinton had a 47 percent. President George W. Bush had the highest rating nine months in, at 88 per cent, as the American public responded very positively to his handling of 9/11.

Trump, however, saw his approval rating go down five points since September.

He was performing better then, as Americans gave him credit for the government's handling of Hurricanes Irma and Harvey.

Since then, he's blundered through the Puerto Rico response in the aftermath of Hurricane Maria and tussled with a Gold Star family.

He's had two high-profile defections from within his own party, as Sens. Bob Corker of Tennessee and Jeff Flake of Arizona both decided not to run for re-election and thus have been calling Trump out for his behavior.

Additionally, the first charges in the special counsel's Russia probe are expected to drop as early as tomorrow, according to reporting from CNN.

'This is the worst showing of his young presidency so far,' Democratic pollster Fred Yang told NBC News. Yang's Hart Research Associates conducted the survey alongside Public Opinion Strategies, led by GOP pollster Bill McInturff.

'Are we starting to see the fraying of the Trump base … after this week of [Republican] infighting?' Yang mused.

Americans who identified as Republicans for the survey still largely stuck by Trump's side, with 81 per cent saying they approved of the president and 17 per cent saying they disapproved, but Trump did lose some support among white voters and white voters without a college degree.

He lost the support of some independents too.

Independents' views largely mirror the poll overall, with 34 percent saying they disapprove of the president and another 57 percent saying they approve of the job Trump has done thus far.

Democrats, by far, approve of the president the least, with 7 per cent saying they approve of Trump and another 89 per cent saying they disapprove.

Americans viewed Trump, personally, more negatively, the new poll found too.

Now 36 per cent of Americans view the president positively, while 54 per cent view him negatively.

A month ago, on the heels of his successful response to Hurricanes Irma and Harvey, 39 per cent viewed him positively and 49 per cent viewed Trump negatively.

Now more than half the population view him in a negative light.

Trump doesn't get majority support for his handling of a number of issues that have come before him as of late.

The highest mark he received is 48 per cent approval for dealing with Irma and Harvey.

And 42 per cent of Americans surveyed like the president's handling of the economy.

From there, 35 per cent approve of his handling of his role as commander-in-chief,  34 per cent say they approve of how he's dealt with the North Korea threat, and 33 per cent support how he reacted to the Las Vegas shooting.

Just 30 percent say he handled the NFL kneeling protests appropriately, 29 per cent approve of the Hurricane Maria response in Puerto Rico and 27 per cent said he's done well with health care.

At the bottom, 24 per cent said they support his handling of the Iran nuclear agreement.

Of all those issues, Americans feel the most strongly and disapprove the most of Trump's handling of the NFL protests over racial inequality, with 59 per cent of respondents saying they disapprove.

These numbers suggest Republicans may have their work cut out for them if they want to hang on to the power they have now.

The poll shows that 48 per cent of registered voters say they'd prefer a Democratic-controlled Congress over the 41 per cent who want to see a Republican one.

Before Democrats get too excited, that 7 point-advantage is leaner than the double-digit one the party held before 2006 and 2008 when they won with big margins.

However, nearly half of voters – 46 per cent – said their 2018 midterm vote would be meant to send a message that more Democrats are needed to serve as a check against Trump and the current GOP-led Congress.

And also, Republicans' double-digit in their red districts is seemingly slipping away, having gone from plus-14 in September to plus-6 in October, pollsters found.

'This is a flashing yellow light for Republicans,' GOP pollster McInturff told NBC News.