It’s the fourth and final Confederate monument the city had slated to take down, and its removal marks the end of one of America’s more successful ― and publicized ― campaigns to expel symbols of white supremacy from public property.

In a speech Friday, New Orleans Mayor Mitch Landrieu made it clear that these statues were part of a “movement which became known as the cult of the Lost Cause.”

“This ‘cult’ had one goal,” he explained, “through monuments and through other means, to rewrite history to hide the truth, which is that the Confederacy was on the wrong side of humanity.

The history of the Confederacy, he added, is one “we should never forget and one that we should never again put on a pedestal to be revered.”

But there remain hundreds of Confederate generals and soldiers on pedestals across America, their proud poses belying the savage system of slavery, rape and torture they fought, and sometimes died, to defend.

Of those symbols, 718 were statues or monuments like those in New Orleans, some explicitly extolling the cause of the Confederacy.

In Anderson County, South Carolina ― home to about 42,000 African-Americans ― there’s a statue that reads, in part: “The world shall yet decide, in truth’s clear, far-off light, that the soldiers who wore the gray, and died with Lee, were in the right.”

Efforts to remove such statues gained momentum in June 2015, after Dylann Roof massacred nine black parishioners at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, South Carolina. After pictures emerged of Roof, an avowed white supremacist, posing with the Confederate flag, a fierce national debate emerged over the symbol of the Southern Army.

Last month, the SPLC said it “found that at least 60 such publicly funded symbols of the Confederacy have been removed or renamed” since Roof opened fire in Charleston. The interactive map below shows where removals have taken place.

Earlier this month in Charlottesville, Virginia ― where the city council voted earlier this year to sell a statue of Lee ―  a group of protesters led by white supremacist Richard Spencer circled Lee’s statue carrying torches in a demonstration Mayor Mike Singer said harked “back to the days of the KKK.” A lawsuit there has stalled that statue’s removal for at least six months.

And in St. Louis this week, Mayor Lyda Krewson said that a 32-foot-tall Confederate monument in a city park should come down but that the city would need to raise funds for its removal.

He talked to HuffPost over the phone Friday morning while trying to find a parking spot near the Lee statue. He wanted to be there when it came down, an occasion he called “joyous.”

“It don’t mean a lot to just have statues gone if it doesn’t catalyze the public in ways that will eventually push the governor to change policies, change legislation.”