According to the Islamophilic left, Mohammed was the original feminist, Islamic teachings are progressive toward women (with their emphasis on wife beating and sexually abusing 7-year-old girls) while Christians like Mike Pence are mean fundamentalists who hate women. That's why leftists break out their Handmaid's Tale costumes to protest Pence and Ryan. Never mind that the Handmaid's Tale novel is an obvious effort to transfer over life for women in Islamic Iran over to a post-apocalyptic America with Christianity, very implausibly, standing in for Islam.

Out of such chaotic and mangled double standards we get a Women's March led by Linda Sarsour who promotes Saudi Arabia.

Sarsour had tweeted defenses of Saudi Arabia’s Islamic treatment of women. Worried about Saudi Arabia not letting women drive? “10 weeks of PAID maternity leave in Saudi Arabia. Yes PAID. And ur worrying about women driving. Puts us to shame.” "Shariah law is reasonable and once u read into the details it makes a lot of sense. People just know the basics," Sarsour tweeted.

Here's another of those basics of Sharia law, courtesy of Linda Sarsour's favorite place, Saudi Arabia.

A model who was seen wearing a short skirt and crop top in a small Saudi Arabian town has reportedly been arrested. The model, named only as 'Khulood', sparked controversy on social media after she shared a video on Snapchat walking through the heritage village of Ushaiqer dressed in a short skirt, black crop top and sneakers.   An arrest warrant issued by Riyadh police and shared by several Twitter users shows that the woman had been arrested on Monday for 'disrespecting and violating the teachings of Islam'.   After the video went viral, officials in Ushaiager called on the region's governor and police to take actions against the woman in response to the video, without elaborating further. The kingdom's morality police said in a tweet at the time that it had corresponded with other agencies to investigate further after the video was brought to their attention.

This is the absurd joke that feminism has become. They'll protest a sleeveless dress code in Congress, but take the Islamist activist who approves of this and turn her into their leader.