The worst Islamic love story of all time is still Mohammed's sexual abuse of Aisha: a child traded to him as part of a political alliance. But this Islamic love story still has a shot at third place.

Woolwich Crown Court heard Ummariyat Mirza promised to launch a knife attack as a wedding present for his wife, Madihah Taheer, and the pair argued about who was more radical. When he wanted to spend £300 on a knife, she complained that they had bills to pay and needed to buy clothes for their baby.

But these are typical married couple arguments. She wants to buy clothes for the baby. He wants to buy knives to murder infidels.



 Taheer wrote: 'Can we get married already ffs I want u to kill ppl for me, I have a list.' He told her: 'The day of nikkah [wedding], I'll kill em all. Give me the list, the only thing that stops me is we are not married. I will defo, I'm not joking.' She responded: 'Lool, u can't have it til u put a ring on it.

The only thing worse than millenial pop culture is millenial pop culture refracted through a homicidal death cult.



 But the dream of a romantic knife gift ran headfirst into the prosaic realities of married life.

By January 12, Mirza was pressing to buy a knife, writing that he was 'just chilling gunna order my knife today inshaAllah [god willing]' adding: 'What weapon shall I get? I don't need ur suggestions actually.' But Taheer, who was pregnant, complained: 'It's so much money Ummar, is it really necessary to spend that much? We've got bills to pay man, baby's thing to get. Have to be sensible and think with a straight head. Can u not use any dishum [knife]. It doesn't have to be bloody state of the art.' 'This isnt a fantasy, its real. Wallahi [I swear] its real as it gets,' Mirza replied. 'Its just going to sit at home Ummar, Ur not gonna carry it around with u all the time. Imagine if u get caught with it, or it falls out, £300 is not a joke Ummar. Is there not a cheaper one u could buy? They all do the same friggin thing Ummar, u don't need to spend £300 on one.'

Where did the passion go?