For all the talk of “love and tolerance” that the left likes to put out as their platform, they sure seem to be fuzzy as to how to show it themselves. The United States suffered the worst mass shooting in our history just days ago, and since then, despite the media insisting that the gunman had no political affiliation whatsoever, the left has been blaming conservatives non stop.

Multiple overtly liberal individuals, some even influental figures in the media, have made statements about the shooting “not being a big deal” because the concert goers were probably Republicans. First off, can you even imagine the uproar if a conservative said the same thing about a shooting that targeted liberals? We would be crucified. But since the media is also sick and tired of the deplorables, they let it slide.

One business owner from Illinois thought he could get away with the same thing, but it didn’t work out so well for him. Dennis Michael Lynch reported about what the co-owner of a deli in Highland Park I.L. shot off that got him in all kinds of trouble:

“A deli in Highland Park, Ill., is scrambling to delete its social media presence and negative reviews online after a co-owner sent out a racist tweet about the Las Vegas shooting.

The deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history occurred in Las Vegas Sunday night, when gunman Stephen Paddock opened fire on a country music festival from his 32nd-floor hotel room, killing over 50 people and wounding more than 500.

Greg Morelli, co-owner of Max’s Deli in the Chicago area, wasted no time. Around 7:30 a.m. Monday morning, he sent out a message from his personal Twitter page that read:

‘Soon as I heard it was country music, I felt relief. White people shooting white people isn’t terror… it’s community outreach. #LasVegas.'”

The prevailing theme coming from the left is that pain and suffering and even death are what people who support President Trump deserve. If anything, this makes us even more sure that we made the right decision. Just imagine what would have happened if these unfeeling people were able to follow their ice queen as she guides us into the jaws of slavery to the government. We would have had a very hard time stopping them.

Many who saw the tweet were disgusted with this man’s callous sentiments towards Americans who lost their lives, and they hit him where it hurt; his pocketbook.

“The tweet was soon deleted, but scores of outraged individuals started posting on the deli’s Yelp review page, leaving one-star reviews along with their comments of disgust, and calling for a boycott of the business.

The backlash was so fierce that even Yelp is now scrubbing comments. A warning at the top of the page says: ‘This business is being monitored by Yelp’s Support team for content related to media reports.’ A pop-up window also appears over the comments section informing users of an ‘active cleanup alert.’

Morelli later posted an apology on the deli’s Facebook page, saying, ‘It was a dumb joke and it didn’t work. I own it. It was stupid. It was seven in the morning and I was stressed out and freaked out by the shooting. I was trying to participate, and all I did was put my foot in my mouth.'”

But he wasn’t done sticking his foot in his mouth yet.

‘We live in a time of mass shootings. This is my mass apology … The thoughts have not worked. The prayers have not worked. What lead me to think Twitter was a good idea is beyond me. I simply do not know what to do about the shootings. Truly, I’m lost!’ Morelli wrote.

In his apology, the store owner admitted he voted for Hillary Clinton, but claimed he is rooting for President Trump to succeed. He assured gun owners, ‘I do not want to take your guns. It’s up to you to decide what to do with your guns.'”

Middle class Americans are at an extreme disadvantage because we have regular jobs. We don’t have all the time in the world to sit around on our keyboards trolling everyone we disagree with. That is what makes it even more important that each of us speak out when we see someone like this attempting to diminish the importance of our very existence.

We may not win every battle, but we can still win the war. And I’m happy to report that we can safely say that we did win this battle, as the deli owner and his minions are fast retreating to the point that even their Facebook page has disappeared due to all the negative feedback. Well done fellow Americans, keep up the good work.

Share if you’re proud of your fellow Americans for putting this deli owner in his place!