A time when Senator McConnell was willing to—in his own description this week as he opposed blue slips—“black ball” one of his state’s Supreme Court Justices, twice-appointed by a governor of his own party.

In August 2013, a Kentucky-based vacancy occurred on the Sixth Circuit. As the Obama Administration reached out to judges and lawyers across the state, one name quickly rose to the top: Justice Lisabeth Hughes.

Justice Hughes had a sterling reputation after nearly 20 years’ experience on Kentucky’s courts, at all levels, including serving on the Kentucky Supreme Court since 2007. Republican Governor Ernie Fletcher had appointed her to the Kentucky Court of Appeals in 2006 and then the Kentucky Supreme Court in 2007. Kentucky has never had a female federal circuit judge, and there was no one more qualified or respected to break this glass ceiling.

In January 2014, the formal vetting began, including a Department of Justice review, an FBI background investigation, and an evaluation by the non-partisan American Bar Association, which gave her its highest rating, unanimous Well-Qualified.

This process was completed in the spring of 2014, and for nearly two years, Justice Hughes waited in limbo, as the Obama White House consulted with Senator McConnell, trying to gain his approval.

When this statement says that the nomination was submitted “without even notifying Leader McConnell,” it must mean that he was not notified that the nomination would be made that day, because his office had been aware of her potential candidacy for years (and it had been publicly reported in the press for almost as long).

So Senator McConnell’s refusal to return his blue slip was based on the fact that President Obama had not accepted his one recommendation for the vacancy. As reported, that recommendation was then-U.S. District Judge Amul Thapar, who was confirmed to this position last May (because Senator McConnell’s obstruction of Justice Hughes had held the seat open) with 44 Democratic “no” votes. Not exactly a consensus recommendation.

Nonetheless, because Senator McConnell made clear he would not return his blue slip, Justice Hughes was denied even a Committee hearing, and the Senate was unable to consider her nomination or the two-decade judicial career on which her well-deserved reputation was built.

This is not just a flip-flop with respect to his treatment of Justice Hughes’ nomination. This breathtaking hypocrisy also applies to five other circuit court nominees whom Republicans blocked by withholding blue slips.

This is not to say that Senator Franken is right to withhold his blue slip simply because Senator McConnell acted worse. But is completely baseless to call Senator Franken’s decision a “new step” or a “new standard.”