Ford’s head of global operations, Joe Hinrichs, said the company would save $1 billion by building the Focus in China instead of Mexico — including $500 million in savings announced at the time the Mexico plant was canceled — and would be able to spend more money expanding American plants that make high-profit trucks and S.U.V.s.

“We have looked at how we can be more successful in the small-car segment and deliver even more choices for consumers in a way that makes business sense,” Mr. Hinrichs said in a statement.

At the same time it announced its Chinese plans, Ford said it would invest $900 million in a Kentucky factory to add production of revamped versions of its full-size Ford Expedition and Lincoln Navigator S.U.V.s. The investment will preserve about 1,000 jobs at the Kentucky plant, Ford said.

The moves were among the first strategic steps taken by Ford’s new chief executive, Jim Hackett, to improve the capital returns on its manufacturing investments. Mr. Hackett, the former chief of the Steelcase furniture firm, was named last month to replace Mark Fields.

One industry analyst said Tuesday that automakers in general were looking to build popular S.U.V. models in the United States and concentrate production of slow-selling, less profitable passenger cars in lower-cost nations.

“It’s all about making cars in the right facility with the right capacity,” said Michelle Krebs, an analyst with Autotrader.com.

Sales of cars have been trending downward in the United States for the past couple of years as cheap gasoline has prompted shoppers to buy larger, less-fuel-efficient S.U.V.s and trucks.

In the first five months of this year, car sales fell 11 percent compared with the same period in 2016. The Focus has been hit particularly hard, with sales dropping about 20 percent.

Ford had planned to move the Focus to Mexico, where workers earn a fraction of the $29-an-hour wages paid to veteran union workers in the United States.

But the Trump administration has threatened to penalize automakers for expanding Mexican production, possibly by imposing tariffs or taxes on vehicles built there and shipped to the American market.

The administration has signaled that it will tackle the Mexican import issue during a renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement this year. But it has not indicated whether it will challenge moves, like Ford’s, to beef up imports from China.

In a statement on Tuesday, Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said the president was intent on encouraging companies to step up their investments in America rather than overseas.

“The Ford decision shows how flexible multinational companies are in terms of geography,” Mr. Ross said. “I believe that as President Trump’s policies and reforms take hold, more companies will begin to locate their facilities in the U.S.”

At a briefing in Washington on Tuesday, Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary, deflected a question about Ford’s decision on production in China, saying that tax reform would provide economic incentives to expand American manufacturing.

“The general consensus is that the president wants to create a tax system that encourages companies to bring jobs and factories back here,” Mr. Spicer said.

It is not clear how much cheaper it is for Ford to build cars in China than in the United States. While wages may be lower there, companies still must absorb costs for shipping and modifying vehicles to meet American safety regulations.

But other automakers, such as Volvo and G.M., already make models in China for sale in the United States, including G.M.’s Buick Envision S.U.V.

There was no immediate comment on the Ford move from the United Automobile Workers union, which has been critical of G.M. for selling Chinese-made Buicks in America.

Ms. Krebs, the Autotrader analyst, said consumers were largely unfazed by where vehicles were built and rarely based their buying decisions on geographical production.

“Most people generally don’t know where their car is built, and they don’t care,” she said.

In announcing its plans for the Focus in China, where it expects production of the new model to begin in the second half of 2019, Ford did not specify the costs related to the decision. A company spokeswoman, Kelli Felker, said adding production to its existing Chinese plants would require a “relatively small investment.”

The move may also affect suppliers that currently produce parts for the Focus made in Michigan.

According to Transportation Department data, about 46 percent of the parts for the American-made Focus are produced in the United States and Canada.

Ms. Felker said there was no information available on where parts were manufactured for Focuses currently made in China.