Dwayne ‘The Rock’ Johnson has officially filed his 2020 Presidential Campaign with The Election Commission.

In what would have felt like a bizarre dairy dream just a few years ago, the WWE champion turned movie action hero could be taking on reality star/sitting president Donald Trump to become the leader of the free world.

According to records, the official paperwork has been filed on behalf of the Get Smart star by a man from West Virginia called Kenton Tilford.

The connection between the two men is, as of yet, unknown.

We have seen charismatic Dwayne take on everything from earthquakes to mummy-hunting archaeologists in his films.

He has even shown comedic talent, playing Obama in a Saturday Night Live skit before a podium labelled ‘The Rock Johnson 2020’.

However, now that the joke is fast becoming a reality, what sort of President would he be? Is the American public tiring of celebrities trying their hand at politics?

Rumors have been circulating for quite some time. Back in June 2016, Alyssa Rosenberg from The Washington Post wrote an opinion piece which suggested that Dwayne could be a viable candidate.

Here, Alyssa stressed how The Rock’s national and global popularity could prove to be an important factor when gathering support.

Dwayne responded to The Washington Post piece on Instagram, calling it ‘interesting’ and ‘fun to read’, whilst stressing the need for ‘strong honest leadership’.

At this point, he was still just toying with the idea of going into politics, having previously made the following statement:

However, it is now clear that he was beginning to ponder over one pretty big ambition…

In May this year, The Rock spoke with GQ about the ‘real possibility’ of running for presidency.

Here, GQ writer Caity Weaver praised Dwayne’s ‘industrial strength patriotism’, with the athletic actor often taking to social media to give thanks to members of the armed forces.

Dwayne also gave a glimpse as to what his presidential style might look like, making the following admission:

So far, Dwayne has remained pretty neutral when discussing what his political views are, and is standing as an Independent candidate rather than a Democrat or a Republican.

He has in the past been a supporter of the Republican Party, speaking at the Republican National Convention back in 2000. He has also been an active campaigner in encouraging young people to vote.

Time will tell whether or not there are some winning policies behind that winning smile…