By the middle of 2011, Norway was in a hell of a state.

Moslems shuffled down the streets of Oslo, pushing the future rapists of White children in their strollers. Norwegian women were out of control, sleeping with any brown-skinned invader that complimented their golden locks. And the elderly refused to leave their homes at all, concerned that Somalis would harvest their organs with newly-sharpened machetes.

Most Norwegian men remained passive throughout this period of decline, simply watching it happen with the apathy of a eunuch.

A true child of Scandinavia, Breivik – then 33 years old – was outraged at the people forcing multiculturalism upon Norway, and decided to send a message that would echo throughout the ages.

So, on July 22nd of that year, the Norwegian Übermensch detonated a van bomb near government buildings in Oslo, sending eight traitors straight to Helheim.

Then, Breivik took his undimmed Aryan wrath to the nearby island of Utøya, where he gunned down 69 future nation-wreckers in a stylish act of ultraviolence that invited comparisons with the lobby scene from The Matrix.

After being sentenced to 21 years of prison on insane, trumped-up charges, the “Ultramarine of Utøya” refused to recant his beliefs despite being tortured daily with a Playstation 2. On the contrary, he remains as dedicated to Nationalism as ever, and actively maintains a hitlist of people whom he believes deserve death for their crimes against Europe.

One of the latest additions to Breivik’s hitlist, which has been called the “Schindler’s List of White Supremacy,” is a Britcuck that made a documentary “exposing” right-wing groups worldwide.

A far-right terrorist who slaughtered 77 people in Norway reportedly had Ross Kemp marked down on his ‘hitlist’. Mr Kemp, a former EastEnders star, is said to believe that his documentary about racist groups made him a target for neo-nazi fanatic Anders Breivik. Speaking to the Daily Star Sunday, Kemp: ‘I got a call and was told Anders had a hit list and I was on it. ‘He’d already done the damage he was going to do and he was already in prison by this point.’ Breivik murdered 77 people in the Norwegian terror atrocity six years ago – he is believed to have had Mr Kemp down as a ‘race traitor’ in his rambling manifesto.

Good luck getting Europeans to sympathize with you, Mr. Kemp.

The simple fact is that most White people revere Anders Breivik as a saint. This is especially true of babies and children, who laugh with joy when shown photographs of his chiseled face.

By the way, if you don’t believe what I said about White people secretly erecting shrines to Anders Breivik in their bedrooms, check out the Daily Mail article’s highest-rated comments:

So, there you have it.

Anders Breivik remains Scandinavia’s most popular freedom fighter, beloved by Whites around the world.

And even though his own government imprisoned him for crimes against Communism, he remains a noble servant of the Nationalist cause, keeping track of all the traitors that contribute to Europe’s downfall.

Heroes still exist, and it’s time for this hero to be released from captivity.