What is wrong with these people?

It’s like every force in the world is conspiring to demonstrate to the people that this “democratic process” thing is complete nonsense.

AfD is supposed to be some kind of “traditional” and “nationalist” party. Yet after being led by some woman for a few years, they’re going for another woman – a sick pervert at that.

But ah – they will balance her out with a male Nazi!

It’s going to be like, two parties in one party. Sort of like when you separate adults and kids at a Christmas party.

What the hell does that mean? Does she want some kind of compromise between Germany becoming an Islamic caliphate and it remaining German? Maybe she wants to implement only some parts of sharia law?

Maybe only half of Germans will be raped and killed? That’s pretty moderate, I guess.

Gauland refused to distance himself from Björn Höcke, the leader of Thuringia, who said in January that too much attention is paid to the Holocaust in German history education. Gauland was discredited by a comment on the black German footballer Jerome Boateng. “As a footballer, people can appreciate it, but the people do not want Boateng as a neighbor,” he said.

She’s also an ex Goldman Sach employee. That’s what I call nationalist cred.

In other words, the AfD used to attach great importance to the traditional family, and is now a pro-homo party (or at least half of it is…)

Listen carefully. Any party with a homo as a leader isn’t a nationalist party. It’s a hardcore Marxist party. In fact, in the 30s, communists executed homosexuals as being bourgeois subversives. So I don’t even know, man. You can’t get any lower than that.

This whole “political spectrum” thing is so stupid. These so-called “nationalists” are letting the Jews define what is moderate and what’s “radical.” We need a new definition of “moderate” and “extreme.”

How about this?

Moderate position: Calling for the immediate rounding up of foreign vermin into concentration camps, pending deportation to whatever third world hellhole they come from.

Centrist position: Allocating state funding to research in bio-weapons and AI drones to wipe out all non-whites from the earth as soon as possible.

Extremist position: Creating massive industrial cloning facilities where Jews are grown in test tubes, and then gassed, over and over again, for centuries.

See, according to this new scale, I can call myself a moderate without any issues. I don’t need to be a carpet munching lesbian, either.