FBI Discovers Nigel Farage is Also Working for the KGB

Bloody hell, Nigel. Could you at least pretend not to work for the KGB?

Brexit was exactly what the Russians wanted.

So why would they not have Farage on the KGB payroll?

Nigel Farage is reportedly being treated as a “person of interest” in the FBI’s investigation into alleged links between Donald Trump’s campaign team and Russia. The former Ukip politician has been drawn into the probe because of his relationships with Mr Trump’s aides and Julian Assange, the Guardian reports. Mr Farage met the WikiLeaks founder at the Ecuadorian Embassy in March, months after the campaign group released hacked DNC emails credited with turning the US election in Mr Trump’s favour. When questioned on the reason for the encounter, he claimed it was for “journalistic reasons” but did not give further details. Mr Farage was also the first British politician to meet Mr Trump after his election victory, making a high-profile visit to Trump Tower in New York. He is believed to have previously met the President on the campaign trail in Mississippi in August, and attended the Republican national convention in Ohio when Mr Trump was nominated in July. Mr Farage also has links with Breitbart founder and White House strategist Steve Bannon, as well as other Trump campaigners and aides. He said he has “never received a penny from Russia” but admits meeting Russian officials including Moscow’s ambassador to the UK, Alexander Yakovenko, and has made appearances on the state-owned Russia Today channel.

Never forget: anti-globalist is a codeword for pro-Russia.

Because the only way we are going to destroy Russia forever is by absorbing them into the globalist hive mind.

If they continue to be an independent nation, they will continue to oppress the gays, not allow Islamic asylum seekers, and have Christianity in their country.

I always did find it weird that Farage would end his speeches by talking about a “world workers revolution against capitalism.”

It never really seemed to fit in with the rest of his message.