The Kaepernick beat has taken some unusual twists and turns in the past 24 hours. There was plenty of the usual support from left-stream media and Kaepernick apologists, an accusation against Michael Vick of criticizing Kaepernick in order to land a job with Fox Sports and some opposition to the polarizing football free agent.

Among those not on board with Kaepernick's outrageous protest is the one of the NFL's all-time greats, Jim Brown.

According to Daniel Mano of The San Jose Mercury News, Brown said Kaepernick is not doing the smart thing. “If you’re a football player, play football. ... I’m going to give you the real deal: I’m an American; I don’t desecrate my flag and my national anthem. I’m not going to do anything against the flag and the national anthem. I’m going to work within those situations. But this is my country, and I work out the problems, but I do it in an intelligent manner.”

Nearly 1,500 people attended a "United We Stand" rally for Kaepernick outside NFL headquarters in New York yesterday. NBC Nightly News anchor Lester Holt introduced a one-sided, biased report on the rally ...

Protestors yelled: "Give a job. Give a job. To Kaepernick."

 

 NBC Reporter Miguel Almaguer came on and said: "The protests outside NFL headquarters in New York, among the largest the league has seen. More than 1,000 fans advocates, athletes and the NAACP standing by the quarterback who took a knee. After a season in which Colin Kaepernick kneeled during the national anthem, the talented quarterback who took the 49ers to the Super Bowl in 2012 has not been signed by a pro team. Pay back for protests say his supporters." 

 

 A woman says, "We are all standing with Colin, it is time for the NFL to put up or shut up. Almaguer opines, "Kaepernick's protests over race relations turned the popular star into a polarizing figure. Some joined his movement, a backlash of anger followed him to every game. Released by the 49ers, Kaepernick is no longer in the spotlight on the field. But he's widely considered better than many quarterbacks in the league playing today."

 



Tim Rohan, of Sports Illustrated, is then shown by NBC seated in a studio and adding to the left-stream narrative of Kaepernick as the victim of injustice. "The NFL may well look back and say, hey, we missed something at a crucial moment."

Monique Judge, of The Root, went so far as to claim Michael Vick's criticism of Kaepernick last month was done just to get a job with Fox Sports. Vick, a retired pro quarterback who served jail time for his role in dog fighting, said Kaepernick needed to clean up his image and clip his Afro -- angering Black liberals no end. Judge asked: "So is this why he was spitting all that hate at Kaep? So he could impress the big bosses at Fox and let them know he was a respectable negro worthy of hiring? I’m sure Mike will fit in well with his new overseers overlords bosses at the Fox network. He actually seems excited about the job."

As reported by the liberal organization The Bleacher Report: Mike Dempsey of 1010 XL in Jacksonville, Florida, asked Jacksonville Jaguars' owner Shad Khan if he "would be fine signing the former San Francisco 49er." Khan answered "if his football people recommended" it, he would "absolutely."

The Bleacher Report's Scott Polacek advocated for Kaepernick by stating he threw for 16 touchdowns and just four interceptions last season. No mention of Kaepernick's support of communist Cuba or insulting America's police officers.

Mano quoted baseball's one-time home run king Hank Aaron saying, "Well, I think he’s getting a raw deal. I’ve been watching pro ball for a long time, and I think that if you look at all the quarterbacks in the league right now, I think you have to say he is one, two, three, four. I don’t think anybody can do the things that he (does). So I just wish somebody would open up and give him a chance to do his thing and say, ‘Hey, he’s entitled to whatever he did, and let’s forget about it.'”

Finally, on Fox Sports 1 today, Jason Whitlock said Kaepernick's current protest is no longer about police brutality, but about self-promotion of himself.