Media Research Center President Brent Bozell had had enough of the left’s double standard when it comes to a conservative’s right speak and the double standard of conservatives being targeted for boycotts. In an appearance on Fox News’ Hannity, he scolded the left for their inconsistencies on those fronts:

Well, you know, first of all, you and I have disagreed on boycotts in the past. But you use the word consistent, you have always been consistent. The left—The left has been utterly inconsistent and hypocritical because they don't believe in free speech. You know, where Kathy Griffin was concerned, people ask the question, “How did she not know she was crossing a line?” This is because the left believes there is no line that you can cross. And where conservatives are concerned, there's no line for them what so ever because they shouldn't be there.

“Why is it that we have let the far left getting away with consistently calling us racist, homophobes, Nazis, everything else they can give and we haven't responded,” Bozell asked before issuing a warning for those in the media who would smear conservatives:

One can disagree with what you said but you had every right to say it. And I think there comes a point where we say enough is enough. We're going to have conversations with advertisers. The next time you smear a conservative, I’m going to go right to your sponsor and I’m going to ask your sponsor: “Is this what you are paying for? Are these your values? Do you believe in character assassination? If so, you ought to be sponsoring this show. If not, you ought to think twice about it. Because we are will attach that to you, if you pay for it.”

SEAN HANNITY: You have been in the forefront of this hypocrisy, Brent, for decades. And you’ve had enough too. And you now agree and by the way, Melanie and Brian are not doing a boycott. They are just showing outrageous things said.  They started with one, they moved to another show. Tonight, what are you doing? BRENT BOZELL: Well, you know, first of all, you and I have disagreed on boycotts in the past. But you use the word consistent, you have always been consistent. The left—The left has been utterly inconsistent and hypocritical because they don't believe in free speech. You know, where Kathy Griffin was concerned, people ask the question, “How did she not know she was crossing a line?” This is because the left believes there is no line that you can cross. And where conservatives are concerned, there's no line for them what so ever because they shouldn't be there. Now, what are we going to do? I think we've had enough, Sean. I think maybe we have to do a little bit of soul-searching ourselves to ask: “Why is it that we have let the far left getting away with consistently calling us racist, homophobes, Nazis, everything else they can give and we haven't responded?” I for one-- I guess I drew the line with the attacks on you. One can disagree with what you said but you had every right to say it. And I think there comes a point where we say enough is enough. We're going to have conversations with advertisers. The next time you smear a conservative, I’m going to go right to your sponsor and I’m going to ask your sponsor: “Is this what you are paying for? Are these your values? Do you believe in character assassination? If so, you ought to be sponsoring this show. If not, you ought to think twice about it. Because we are will attach that to you, if you pay for it.”