Thursday morning, CNN’s New Day co-host Alisyn Camerota had to be reminded by Senator Mike Lee (R-UT) that then-FBI Director James Comey testified on May 3 that he had received no pressure to end any FBI investigation:

HIRONO: So if the Attorney General or senior officials at the Department of Justice opposes a specific investigation, can they halt that FBI investigation? COMEY: Not in my experience. Because it would be a big deal to tell the FBI to stop doing something that — without an appropriate purpose. I mean where oftentimes they give us opinions that we don’t see a case there and so you ought to stop investing resources in it. But I’m talking about a situation where we were told to stop something for a political reason, that would be a very big deal. It’s not happened in my experience.

Camerota appeared to have not have even heard the Senator. She immediately asked: “And I’m sorry to interrupt, but you have heard he wrote memos to the contrary?”

Lee had to explain to her:

Yes. Haven't seen the memos personally, but what I’m saying is, those memos, if they exist, if he said those things, would seem to contradict his testimony. So that will be my first question is how do you reconcile that memo, if in fact it does say that with the testimony you provided with the committee in early May.

He went on to describe the questions he would have if Comey does indeed tell Congress that Trump pressured him:

I would have a lot of questions after that. I want to know how he reconciles his statement with the earlier statement. And I’d also want to know why he didn't immediately resign. You know, a lawyer in this circumstance, representing a client would make a withdrawal, would announce his decision to withdraw representation. I would think James Comey would be expected to resign if he were told to do something like that.

Now, people like Chris Cuomo have stated that Comey was just speaking with regard to the DOJ, that he was not saying that the President had not pressured him, but this is hard to believe considering the DOJ serves under the President. Unless, he was going out of his way to protect the President. Comey even said it would have been a big deal if asked to end an investigation for political purposes.

But Cuomo is programmed to accept any leftist talking points. So, after the interview. he mocked the Senator and accused him of being a partisan.

Yet, I cannot recall a time that he showed such disrespect for a Democrat that was just interviewed on their show. Then again, it’s not surprising since he’s the brother of ultra-liberal New York Governor Andrew Cuomo.

A more complete transcript of the June 1st conversations are below:

ALISYN CAMEROTA: If James Comey testifies that in fact President Trump pressured him or pressed him to back off the Michael Flynn investigation then what?  MIKE LEE:  I'm not sure but that would surprise me. I'm on the Judiciary Committee and just a few weeks ago we had a still-director Comey come and testify. Someone asked him about political pressure and he said this is something I have not seen, something in my experience has not occurred.  CAMEROTA: And I’m sorry to interrupt, but you have heard he wrote memos to the contrary? LEE: Yes. Haven't seen the memos personally, but what I’m saying is, those memos, if they exist, if he said those things, would seem to contradict his testimony. So that will be my first question is how do you reconcile that memo, if in fact it does say that with the testimony you provided with the committee in early May.  CAMEROTA: Because CNN has sources that say that is what he's going to testify, to he'll say he was pressured by the President. So if he says that then and you believe him does that mean obstruction of justice?  LEE: I don't know. I would have a lot of questions after that. I want to know how he reconciles his statement with the earlier statement. And I’d also want to know why he didn't immediately resign. You know, a lawyer in this circumstance, representing a client would make a withdrawal, would announce his decision to withdraw representation. I would think James Comey would be expected to resign if he were told to do something like that.  CHRIS CUOMO: We just had senator Mike Lee on with a big smile on his face saying, yeah, I don't think that Comey is going to testify that he was pressured because he would’ve quit. No curiosity about what it would mean if the President did make that request and isn’t that just a reflection of the naked partisanship that is at play here?