by Grant Smith,  … with Institute for Research, Middle Eastern Policy, Washington, DC

[ Editor’s Note: Grant Smith of IRmep has been the bionic bulldog on this long running Israeli nuclear espionage case that official Washington would prefer the public never know anything about.

That is not only due to the gravity of this specific case, and how nothing was really done about it. But even worse, it set the stage for allowing Israeli espionage to go on in the US without being inconvenienced with arrests and prosecutions.

This made Israel’s recruiting of spies in the US mere child’s play because it was obvious that the fix was in at the top. No law enforcement agency or security trade group has ever publicly stood out against this disgrace, despite its being an incredible breach of their oath of office, and in effect, making them accessories to ongoing  Zionist espionage here.

IRmep is also an example of what a small group can do long term with continuing funding as operating in Washington, DC is not cheap. But compared to the typical think tank budgets there, IRmep is run on the cheap, a wonderful example of what a small dedicated group of activist and researches can so when teamed up with some secure financial backing.

Despite all the naysayers who claim that going up against the Israelis and their US traitor buddies is a waste of time as nothing can ever be done to stop them, Grant Smith has kept the light of resistance burning in the window for others to join.

Save this article to a file as there are many valuable links here, like the 100 page pdf that can be used as an inefficient introduction piece to acquaint new people to this long and sordid story. We simply have to keep the spotlight on this “cancer “, as John Dean of the Nixon White house called it, growing on the American corpus or we will continuing to slaves to this ongoing humiliation… Jim W. Dean ]

This includes research, needed field trips, Heritage TV Legacy archiving, and more – Thanks for helping out

Grant Smith let me know this afternoon that his article was an exclusive to Antiwar.com.

Here is the link at the IRmep website.