President Trump's National Security Adviser H.R. McMaster pushed back on a report that said his boss had shared 'highly classified' information with top Russian officials during an Oval Office meeting last week.

'The story that came out tonight is false,' McMaster told a pack of reporters gathered outside the West Wing.

Trump passed on the highly restricted 'code word' information during an Oval Office meeting with Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov, the Washington Post reported Monday afternoon.

'This is code-word information,' a U.S. official told the paper, referring to the top classification level. The president 'revealed more information to the Russian ambassador than we have shared with our own allies.'

McMaster forcefully disputed the report – although his denial stated the thrust of the Post story to be different than the story that the paper published.

'The president and the foreign minister reviewed a range of common threats to our two countries, including threats to civil aviation. At no time — at no time — were intelligence sources or methods discussed,' McMaster said.

The Post story didn't say Trump revealed sources and methods – but rather that he passed on to the Russians highly classified information obtained from an ally.

'The president did not disclose any military operations that were not already publicly known,' McMaster added, something the Post story never contended occurred.

'Two other senior officials who were present, including the secretary of state, remember the meeting the same way and have said so. Their on-the-record accounts should outweigh those of anonymous sources,' McMaster said in closely-watched remarks outside the White House, as reaction and concern rolled in from Capitol Hill.

'I was in the room — it didn’t happen,' he said, before abruptly ending his statement without taking questions.

The information pertained to a terror threat to aviation using bombs contained in electronic devices like laptops.

Paul Ryan also spoke out on Monday night about the reports, calling for Trump and his office to provide a full account of the meeting in which he is being accused of sharing secrets with Russia.

‘We have no way of knowing what was said, but protecting our nation’s secrets is paramount,’ the statement from Ryan's spokesman, Doug Andres, read.

‘The speaker hopes for a full explanation of the facts from the administration.'

The flurry of reports and counter-spin prompted the Senate Foreign Relations Committee chairman, Sen. Bob Corker of Tennessee, to warn of a 'downward spiral.'

'The White House has got to do something soon to bring itself under control and in order,' Corker said, Bloomberg reported.  “It’s got to happen,” he said.

“Obviously they’re in a downward spiral right now and they’ve got to figure out a way to come to grips [with] all that’s happening," Corker added.

Trump revealed the information to Lavrov while boasting about his own sources of knowledge, according to an official familiar with it.

'I get great intel. I have people brief me on great intel every day,' Trump reportedly said.

The report comes after a flap over release of photos from the meeting, which occurred just after it was revealed Trump fired FBI Director James Comey, amid tumult over the FBI's Russia investigation.

As the latest sensational story to come out of Russia broke, White House press secretary Sean Spicer huddled with his communications team in the White House.

A series of press aides declined to comment to a group of reporters, including DailyMail.com, looking for confirmation or a denial that the president had passed on the information to the nation's longtime adversary.

McMaster commented only as he ran into a pack of reporters in the White House.

'This is the last place I wanted to be. I'm leaving,' he said as a joke.

Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Calif.), vice chair of the House Intelligence Committee, called the report 'deeply disturbing.'

McMaster soon confronted the White House press corps en masse, giving a brief statement on the matter outside the West Wing.

'There's nothing that the president takes more seriously than the safety of the American people,' McMaster said. Later, he appeared outside the White House to give his more elaborate statement.

Nancy Pelosi, speaking at a CNN town hall on Monday night, said if the reports are true it would be 'very, very damaging.'

'It undermines the trust that we would have with our allies,' she told the network.

Adam Schiff of California called the story 'deeply disturbing' and said if it's true, the disclosure could jeopardize sources of very sensitive intelligence and relationships with key allies.

The national security adviser explained that the president and the Russian foreign minister 'reviewed a range of common threats to our two countries including threats to civil aviation.'

'At no time, were intelligence sources or methods discussed,' he added. 'And the president did not disclose any military operations that were not already publicly known.'

McMaster said that 'two other senior officials that were present, including the secretary of state, remembered the meeting the same way and have said so.'

'They're on-the-record accounts should outweight those of anonymous sources. I was in the room,' he said. 'It didn't happen.'

McMaster then left the bouquet of microphones without answering any questions.

His statement followed a number of written statements, including one Secretary of State Rex Tillerson released to CNN, which didn't deny the president passed on secret information.

'During President Trump’s meeting with Foreign Minister Lavrov, a broad range of subjects were discussed, among which were common efforts and threats regarding counter-terrorism. During that exchange, the nature of specific threats were discussed, but they did not discuss sources, methods, or military operations,' Tillerson said.

In the same statement, which was released by the White House, Deputy National Security Advisor Dina Powell said: 'This story is false. The president only discussed the common threats that both countries faced.'

The president has broad authority to declassify information unilaterally, which would insulate him from having done anything illegal.

Lower-level government officials who disclose highly-classified information, even without ill intent, can get prosecuted.

Trump ran, in part, by campaigning that Hillary Clinton had put the nation's security at risk through her use of a private email server while secretary of state.

'Crooked Hillary Clinton and her team 'were extremely careless in their handling of very sensitive, highly classified information,' Trump tweeted in July after Comey called her out in a press conference where he nevertheless didn't reccommend prosecution. 'Not fit!'

According to the report, Trump discussed aspects of the threat learned through the unspecified espionage capabilities of a 'key partner.'

He didn't reveal the specific sources and methods, but nevertheless described how ISIS was seeking to carry out a plot.

An official said Trump revealed the city within ISIS territory where a U.S. ally detected the threat, according to unnamed officials.

That could run the risk of compromising the source, since the Russians are engaged in a military campaign in Syria, where they are propping up dictator Bashar al-Assad.

McMaster is quoted in the article saying no sources or methods were disclosed, without denying Trump leaked classified information.

'The president and the foreign minister reviewed common threats from terrorist organizations to include threats to aviation,' said McMaster, who participated int he meeting. 'At no time were any intelligence sources or methods discussed, and no military operations were disclosed that were not already known publicly,' he said.

Looming behind Russia's meeting are congressional investigations and an FBI investigation into alleged Russian interference in the U.S. presidential election.

Trump fired James Comey, who was atop the investigation, last week, drawing howls of protest from Democrats and some Republicans. Trump first attributed the firing to Comey's handling of Hillary Clinton's email scandal, but later told NBC Russia was on his mind when he made the decision.

'Everyone knows this stream is very sensitive, and the idea of sharing it at this level of granularity with the Russians is troubling,' a former U.S. counterterrorism official told the Post.

The timing of Trump's Russia meetings were noteworthy given the intense focus on all things Russia.

Moscow also put out images of Trump greeting a smiling Sergey Kislyak, Russia's ambassador to the U.S. They got released by the TASS news agency, the Russian embassy, and the Russian Foreign Ministry.

The White House kept U.S. photographers out, and didn't put any photo record out until a day after the fact.

The White House flickr account did not post a Kislyak photo with the president.

The official White House readout of Trump's meeting didn't mention that Russian ambassador Sergey Kislyak was there.

Trump trolled his critics late Thursday by tweeting out a photo of him and Lavrov – as well as an image of himself meeting with Ukraine's foreign minister.

'Yesterday, on the same day- I had meetings with Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov and the FM of Ukraine, Pavlo Klimkin. #LETSMAKEPEACE!' Trump wrote.

Trump's frank comments at a meeting that included Kislyak are all the more noteworthy because Kislyak is at the center of a burgeoning investigation into his presidential campaign's Russia contacts.

Trump fired former National Security Advisor Mike Flynn after Flynn was revealed to have met with Kislyak during the transition and then failing to tell Vice President Mike Pence about it.

'We have no way to know what was said, but protecting our nation's secrets is paramount. The speaker hopes for a full explanation of the facts from the administration,' said Doug Andres, a spokesman for House Speaker Paul Ryan in early reaction Monday evening.