The Wall Street Journal reported on this phone call between Kelly and Rohrabacher on Friday. Rohrabacher is now saying this phone call was leaked by the Deep State in order to undermine his efforts to speak to President Trump directly about it.

Assange has repeatedly said Russia is not linked to the leak of thousands of John Podesta emails before the election.

Julian Assange reportedly told Rohrabacher he is ready to provide information that Russia did not hack the DNC.

Rohrabacher told the Washington Examiner on Friday night that no one from his office disclosed the call.

“I have honored the confidentially of a very important business-related call,” he said, speculating that someone inside the White House or within U.S. intelligence agencies leaked the call. “I don’t know who it is, all I know is I’m up against an array of very powerful forces, including the intelligence services and major newspapers that are basically allied with the liberal Left who have every reason to undermine communication on this issue,” he told the Washington Examiner. “Look, there are very powerful forces at work,” he added. “We’ve got the NSA, the FBI and the CIA, all of whom confirmed a major lie that was being used for political purposes and a lie that was repeated and repeated in order to undercut our new president.” “You’ve got people who are obviously just trying to cover their ass for mistakes they have made,” he added, referring to the intelligence agency theory. “They will probably do their best to keep Trump from knowing about this and knowing about his options to expose this.”

The Deep State is festering and they do not want the truth to come out about the DNC email leaks. More and more evidence is piling up that the DNC leak was an inside job and not the job of a remote actor such as the Russians.

Debbie Wasserman Schultz’s Pakistani IT staffer Imran Awan was uploading ‘terabits’ of information to Dropbox. A House official told Circa News that Imran Awan may have sold the uploaded info. Everyone is talking about Russia but Awan could have been the one to have sold the DNC emails. The DNC refuses to hand over their servers to be investigated. If they really were the victim of a ‘hack’ like they claim, they wouldn’t be protecting their servers from authorities.

The House official told Circa that Awan was also allegedly uploading “terabits of information to dropbox so he was possibly able to access the information even after he was banned from the network.” The official said there is a need for a full congressional investigation on the matter. “I think this may lead to information as to who really accessed the DNC server – everybody talks about Russia – but look at the access (Awan) had and potentially those emails could have been sold,” the House official added.