The vice president has arrived in New Jersey for a luncheon with the president.

President Donald Trump dines with his second-in-command once a week to discuss the administration's agenda and progress, and he's carrying on with tradition today, even though he is not in Washington.

Trump is staying at his Bedminster golf resort while his home-away-from-home undergoes renovations. Vice President Mike Pence will chat with him there ahead of travel to South America.

Pence and Trump are seeing each other for the first time since the New York Times suggested the VP was conducing a shadow campaign for president. Pence says the charge is 'absurd.'

The Times reported last weekend that Pence positioning himself to run for president in 2020 if Trump doesn't.

It relied on second-hand conversations with anonymous sources and evidentiary material like Pence's formation of a leadership PAC as the basis for its claims. Pence is using the fundraising committee, Great America Committee, to endear himself to influential conservative activists and donors, it indicated.

Also referenced in the article were Pence's frequent trips abroad to meet with foreign leaders and his speeches at Republican dinners that have traditionally served as testing-the-waters markers.

The article infuriated the vice president, who has typically served as the yang to Trump's yin. He unloaded on the Times in a Sunday morning statement that derided the article as 'disgraceful and offensive,' not to just to him but also his family and team.

'The allegations in this article are categorically false and represent just the latest attempt by the media to divide this Administration,' he said. 'The American people know that I could not be more honored to be working side by side with a president who is making America great again.'

Pence's statement uncharacteristically blasted the reporting in the Times, a favorite target of Trump's, as 'fake news.'  The VP's spokesman later called the outlet the 'Never Trump New York Times' as he forcefully pushed back on the conjecture.

'Whatever fake news may come our way, my entire team will continue to focus all our efforts to advance the President's agenda and see him re-elected in 2020. Any suggestion otherwise is both laughable and absurd,' Pence's statement said.

Trump loyalists have been equally aggressive in their defense of Pence, the Indiana governor until he became vice president.

'I want to make a remark about Vice President Pence. I've worked with him for ten years as his pollster, as a senior adviser, and certainly work with him daily in the White House,' Kellyanne Conway said Sunday morning as the article was breaking. 'It is absolutely true that the vice president is getting ready for 2020, for reelection as vice president.'

Conway told ABC News anchor George Stephanopoulos the White House has 'zero concern' that Pence is positioning himself to be a back-up candidate.

'That is complete fiction. That is complete fabrication. And I know that his advisers who had comments attributed to them have pushed back strongly, as has the vice president. And as am I right now unequivocally,' the senior Trump advisor stated.

Conway went on to describe Pence as 'a very loyal, very dutiful, but also incredibly effective vice president, and active vice president, with this president.

'He is a peer to the president in the West Wing,' she said. 'He just came off a trip in Eastern Europe and he'll go back I believe it was in the next week to South America, to represent the country on his fourth and foreign trip since taking office.'

The speculation didn't end, despite Conway's assertive condemnation. With Trump in Bedminster on a 'working vacation' and Congress in recess, news channels had hours of programming to fill.

Marc Lotter, the VP's spokesman, appeared on Fox & Friends Monday morning to swat down the rumor again.

Echoing the VP's statement, Lotter said, 'It's absurd.'

'Both the president and the vice president are on the same page. They speak constantly, regularly on multiple times a day,' he said. 'There's no confusion here that the president and vice president are both equally focused on enacting the president's agenda, delivering on their promises and making America great again.'

Lotter said his boss' political action committee is a 'legal necessity' so that he can fundraise for down ballot candidates.

He pointed out that the president's eldest daughter, Ivanka, introduced Pence at one of the PAC's recent events.

Lotter said the media would rather speculate about 2020 than talk about the administration's successes.

His commentary was backed up shortly after by former Trump deputy campaign manager David Bossie, who declared the Times article 'outrageous' in a separate Fox & Friends appearance.

'The vice president of the United States is a full partner with the president in their agenda - their agenda,' he emphasized, 'to make America great again.'

Incredulous, Bossie said, 'The vice president has done nothing but be an incredible partner in delivering on that legislative agenda and is going to be moving forward to do just that.'

Pence has the most legislative experience of anyone in the White House. He's a former governor and congressman with knowledge of and ties to the conservative base.

Trump spent his career developing iconic properties in New York. He was largely unfamiliar to lawmakers inside and outside of the GOP establishment before he ran for and became president.

Bossie said that Pence is not setting up shop in early election states. He's trying to get Trump's legislative agenda through the House and Senate.

The frequent visitor to the West Wing voluntarily offered up Ohio Gov. John Kasich as someone trying to take Trump down in 2020, not the vice president.

In remarks to the media prior to Thursday's luncheon, White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders cautioned reporters read into the Trump-Pence pow wow.

'The vice president is getting ready to leave the country. They meet regularly. It’s not out of the ordinary,' she said.

Huckabee Sanders said Pence would also be joining the president, White House Chief of Staff John Kelly and National Security Advisor H.R. McMaster at a security briefing immediately following the meal.