Since late January of 2012, the Washington Examiner’s Paul Bedard has once a week featured a “Mainstream Media Scream” selection in his “Washington Secrets” column. For each pick, usually posted online on Monday, I provide an explanation and recommend a “scream” rating (scale of one to five).

This post contains the “Mainstream Media Screams” starting in January 2017. “Mainstream Media Screams” for July to December 2016; for January to June 2016; for July to December 2015; for January to June 2015. (2012-2014 are featured on MRC.org: For 2014; for June 17, 2013 through the end of 2013. And for January 31, 2012 through June 11, 2013, when the Washington Examiner was both online and a printed daily newspaper distributed around the Washington, DC area.)

Check Bedard’s “Washington Secrets” blog for the latest choice and his other Washington insider posts. Each week, this page will be updated with Bedard’s latest example of the worst bias of the week.

■ New on August 29: Mainstream Scream: Hurricane Harvey was Trump’s fault

I’ll add text and video here next week, but so the Washington Examiner gets the traffic for their post when it’s fresh, please read Paul Bedard’s post on their site where you can watch the video and add a comment to share your assessment.

This week's Mainstream Media Scream features CNN's media analyst wondering aloud if President Trump has an illness that makes him unfit for office, crazy even. Brian Stelter, host of CNN's Reliable Sources, opened Sunday's show by maintaining "this is not a normal week so this is not a normal show. President Trump's actions and inactions in the wake of Charlottesville are provoking some uncomfortable conversations, mostly off the air if we're being honest." "In discussions among friends and family and debates on social media, people are questioning the president's fitness. But these conversations are happening in newsrooms and TV studios as well. It's usually after the microphones are off, of after the stories been filed, after the paper has been put to bed, people's concerns and fears and questions come out. Questions that often feel out of bounds, off limits, too hot for TV. Questions like these: "Is the president of the United States a racist? Is he suffering from some kind of illness? Is he fit for office? [long pause] And if he's unfit, then what? "These are upsetting, polarizing questions that are uncomfortable to ask. But we in the national news media can't pretend like our readers have viewers aren't already asking. They are asking. This is how deep the country's divide has really become. "My impression is that since President Trump's inauguration, there's been a lot of tiptoeing going on. His actions have been described as unpresidential, as unhinged, and sometimes even crazy." Media Research Center Vice President of Research Brent Baker explains our weekly pick: "Can you say ‘projection'? The media have hardly been ‘tiptoeing' around their condemnation of the Trump presidency, but he's still in office so, it seems, activist journalists like Stelter think they've failed and must prod their colleagues to step it up by calling Trump ill and unfit. They're just alienating themselves further from much of America." Rating: Five out of five screams.

This week's Mainstream Media Scream features MSNBC host Brian Williams as the example of the media cooing over Sen. John McCain and the other GOP senators who killed the party's promise to repeal and replace Obamacare. After the defeat early Friday morning of the final opportunity in the Senate to move toward repealing Obamacare, Williams hailed McCain as a "profile in courage" for voting no, despite the fact the Arizona senator campaigned on a promise to repeal the law. Later in the day, he touted McCain's "moment of moral courage," and also praised the "courage" of the two other Republican senators who voted no, wondering with some hope: "Is that kind of courage, for people cheering them on, going to be contagious?" Williams on MSNBC at 2 AM EDT Friday morning, just after the vote: "We'll leave this hour quoting Sen. Chris Murphy, Democrat of Connecticut, saying ‘I ran into John McCain as we walked underground to the Senate for the final vote. Someday, I'll get to tell my grandkids what he said to me.' The words of John McCain, who was indeed a profile in courage tonight, along with two women in the Republican caucus, Senator from Maine, Murkowski — Senator from Alaska, Murkowski — Senator from Maine, Collins." Then, about 21 hours later, on MSNBC's The 11th Hour with Brian Williams, he offered a dramatic recounting of McCain's vote: "In the well of the Senate, it came down to one very dramatic moment. Senator John McCain walks in, asks to be recognized, raises that right arm broken three different places in North Vietnam, a quick indicator with a thumbs down. The Democrats briefly react, Senator Schumer waives off any verbal reaction. But with that, it was done. Seven years of talk about repeal and replace done in one hand gesture. "Our panel remains with us and we'll go to Charlie Sykes. Charlie, much was made of that moment, a moment of moral courage, a man staring down his own mortality yet again, not the first time in his life. But let's also talk about the courage of Murkowski of Alaska and Collins of Maine, because without those two women, there is no moment like that for John McCain. My question to you: Is that kind of courage, for people cheering them on, going to be contagious?" Media Research Center Vice President of Research Brent Baker explains the pick: "The very definition of outrageous liberal bias. Can you imagine Williams heaping such praise on McCain if his vote was the one which enabled the Senate to repeal Obamacare? Of course not. But betray a promise made to your constituents in order to advance a liberal goal and you earn the media's adoration." Rating: Five out of five screams.

■ July 24: Mainstream Scream: Now CNN says Trump’s ‘rhetoric’ is a scandal

■ July 10: Mainstream Scream: Lupica says McConnell more a threat than Putin

■ June 19: Mainstream Scream: Brokaw sees only far right ‘hate’ in internet violence

This week's Mainstream Media Scream features NBC News dean Tom Brokaw discussing "common threats" but mentioning only far right examples when talking about internet driven violence like last week's shooting on GOP lawmakers, staff, and police by a left-wing 2016 Bernie Sander's volunteer. The NBC News veteran delivered a commentary about hate speech in which he never mentioned the left. On the June 18 edition of Sunday Night with Megyn Kelly, during which she earlier interviewed far-right conspiracy promoter Alex Jones, she cited the recent incident on a baseball field as she introduced Brokaw's piece about "hate speech." He denounced "the seizure on the internet by hate groups of all kinds spreading their cancer of wholesale racism and violence" and the "reach and the poisonous claims of Alex Jones and others like him, and even establishment public figures." From the June 18 Sunday Night with Megyn Kelly on NBC: Megyn Kelly: "This past week there's been a lot of conversation about our toxic political culture, largely driven by the shooting of a congressman and others on a baseball field in Virginia. Tom Brokaw joins us to share some of his thoughts about hate speech and the internet in these challenging times. Tom?" Tom Brokaw: "Thank you, Megyn. This is not an easy assignment for a journalist, a father, a grandfather, a citizen to try to understand the deep, dark hate that's coursing through our country and the instruments that spread it with a keystroke. "When the internet first arrived, like everyone else, I was bedazzled by its possibilities for good and those qualities have only become so much more effective and pervasive. "But I was also quickly aware of the underside, the seizure on the net by hate groups of all kinds spreading their cancer of wholesale racism and violence. I did two documentaries at the turn of the century called The Web of Hate hoping to slow that trend. "But the reach and the poisonous claims of Alex Jones and others like him, and even establishment public figures, would not be slowed. We cannot disrupt the irrational spread of hate and division by instantly blindly blaming the other side or by looking away. The parents of Newtown, it is not enough to say I cannot imagine because unless we're the parents, we can never, ever share the unremitting pain, the lifelong loss and anger, nor should they have to hear the cruel claim that it was a lie. No parent or grandparent in America today can escape the fear, the fear that it could happen again. "We cannot allow the agents of hate to go unchallenged and become the imprint of our time. We'll always have differences, of course, but in our finest moments, we're a republic that thrives when it recognizes common threats and takes them on. That time is now again. This is a time of common threats requiring uncommon courage. It is a time to step up." Media Research Center Vice President of Research Brent Baker explains our pick: "Did Brokaw record this before the the Scalise shooting? If so, why air something so obviously out of sync with events? If not, Brokaw is so blind to hate on the left that he cannot bring himself to even mention it when it is part of what led to the shooting of a congressman, a momentous incident. Apparently, all the hate is on the right no matter the evidence in Brokaw's face of strewn in bullets around a baseball field." Rating: Four out of five screams.

■ May 30: Mainstream Media Scream: Trump blamed for assault on reporter

■ May 15: Mainstream Scream:  ‘Worse than Watergate,’ says Carl Bernstein

■ May 8: Mainstream Scream: Hillary ‘Always the smartest woman in the room’

This week's Mainstream Media Scream features regular White House target Jim Acosta, CNN's senior White House correspondent, knocking the criticism by claiming, "We're not the opposition party. We are just trying to get at the truth." During the "Press and the Presidency" forum last Wednesday at the Newseum, he said: And the president, to some extent, has an unhealthy attitude towards the news media and I think I'm being diplomatic when I say this. I was out on the campaign trail time and again when he referred to the news media as the dishonest news media, the disgusting news media. He called us liars and crooks and thieves and I can't think of all of the other names that he called us. There were chants of, you know, going after CNN that he would pause for and allow the crowd to continue those chants and, you know, I did ask him during that news conference where he did take my question, are you concerned that you are undermining American confidence in the news media? Because, at the end of the day, when he leaves office, we need Republicans to believe what's being said in the mainstream news media, just as much as we need Democrats to and I think that the president has to understand that he is doing real damage to what we do. He's doing real damage to the First Amendment in this country when he refers to the news media as the enemies of the people. Now, I know some of that is production, it's the, you know, he's from Fifth Avenue, so there is a little bit of Broadway there, I guess or something like that... I was with Steve Bannon the other day where he referred to us as the opposition party once again. We're not the opposition party. We are just trying to get at the truth and when you have a side of the news media that just insists time and again that, you know, that CNN is out to get the president or out to get certain people in this country, I think it just does a tremendous disservice to all Americans. I don't think it is American to go after a segment of the news media. Media Research Center Vice President of Research Brent Baker explains the pick: "Trump's lack of respect for much of the news media is just giving voice to the way many Americans feel, a view well-earned by journalists like Acosta who condescendingly proclaim an allegiance to 'the truth' but refuse to acknowledge the years of anti-conservative bias at CNN and elsewhere. If Acosta wants to know why Trump's attacks resonate, he should look in the mirror." Rating: Five out of five screams.

■ April 3: Mainstream Scream: Chuck Todd says Trump has the world ‘panicked’

■ February 13: Mainstream Media Scream: Smeared ‘Tea Party’ name OK when it’s liberal

With so many in the media running around with the hair on fire over President Trump's first week in office it was hard to pick a top Mainstream Media Scream of the week. So we settled on one that represents the media's view of the administration, from CNN's Christiane Amanpour. It came during Thursday's Anderson Cooper 360 when he read a quote from top Trump adviser Stephen Bannon out of the New York Times: "The media should be embarrassed and humiliated and keep its mouth shut and just listen for a awhile." Amanpour replied: "Steve Bannon is playing the role that he set out for himself. There is obviously some kind of strategy here, although it's hard for me to comprehend it because, you know, I operate in the truth and the fact-based universe. But he's playing a strategy which involves creating straw men and women, creating an enemy out of the press, and then, you know, dividing, diverting, obfuscating while other things are going on. That's the only thing I can imagine. Obviously, there are many other — I want to say — totalitarian regimes in the past which used this same kind of strategy. "And, I mean, if I was going to be funny, I'd say that he's angling for an order of merit from Presidents Sisi, Putin, Erdogan, and all the others. That is how they treat their press. That is what they believe the press should be — a pliant, state propaganda unit in the service of the president. It is not the tradition of the American press." Media Research Center Vice President of Research Brent Baker explains the pick: "First, Amanpour is quite the comedian with her insistence she 'operates in the truth and the fact-based universe.' Second, journalists can sure dish out criticism, but Amanpour shows they can't take it. In her case, quite the hysterical overreaction about Bannon and President Trump acting like a 'totalitarian regime.' That analogy worked better in the years of the previous presidency when CNN was fully in the tank for the Obama administration." Rating: Four out of five screams.