Not convinced the media is the opposition party yet? Well, Thursday provided another example as CNN issued a statement disguised as an editorial, blasting President Donald Trump for comments he made about liberal CNN hosts Chris Cuomo and Don Lemon as “beneath the dignity of the office of the President."

Reported by Reliable Sources host Brian Stelter, he filled the role of network stenographer:

CNN says President Trump's latest anti-media attacks "are beneath the dignity of the office of the President." In an interview with Time magazine, Trump insulted CNN's Chris Cuomo and Don Lemon and criticized MSNBC's Joe Scarborough. He also called CBS late-night host Stephen Colbert a "no-talent guy." CNN responded in a statement Thursday afternoon: "His comments are beneath the dignity of the office of the President." The interview reaffirmed Trump's fixation on TV coverage and his fascination with ratings. He repeatedly misconstrued the ratings for specific shows.

Now, what did Trump say that was so upsetting that it triggered an entire network to lash out at the President?

Concerning far-left New Day host Chris Cuomo, Trump slammed him for possessing “a level of hatred” for him “like a chained lunatic” and “a boiler ready to explode.”

Well then. It’s easy to see why Trump would feel that way considering the Cuomo-Kellyanne Conway interview on Wednesday and any basic perusing of Cuomo’s NewsBusters file.

CNN Tonight host Don Lemon was also mentioned by Trump. Most ABC journalists would fit this description, but the President told Time that Lemon’s “perhaps the dumbest person in broadcasting” and cuts off guests to go to commercial break whenever they make a point that he disagrees with.

CNN wasn’t the only media called out in this interview. Here’s what Trump stated about his former pal and Morning Joe co-host Joe Scarborough:

Scarborough used to treat me great. But because I don’t do interviews and stuff and want to … He went the other way. Which is fine. He’s got some problems. But I don’t watch the show anymore. It drives him crazy. I don’t watch the show.

CBS’s Late Show host Stephen Colbert has enjoyed a rise in the ratings as the unofficial comedian of "The Resistance," down to his gay sex joke about the President pleasuring Russian President Vladimir Putin. Trump called out Colbert as “a no-talent guy” offering “nothing” that’s “funny” but “filthy” jokes when “you have kids watching.”

If print people felt left out by this Trump media tirade, he took a brief pot shot at The New York Times and The Washington Post, stating “they’re really, really dishonest.”