With each passing day, we continue to see why Trump’s stance on immigration is an absolute necessity to protecting our borders. If the gang rape of a Maryland teen several weeks ago at the hands of illegals wasn’t enough to convince you, then perhaps this story of what a Mexican was trying to smuggle into America will.

While raids across the nation are rapidly deterring people’s plans for attempting to come into our country illegally, one Mexican woman decided she’d still take the calculated risk. Custom officers spotted the woman crossing the border in southern Arizona with a stroller carrying two young children where they would then make a startling discovering after a K-9 dog alerted agents that there was something seriously wrong.

After safely removing the two children, officers conducted a careful inspection of the stroller and discovered a highly dangerous drug, fentanyl. The Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) describes fentanyl as a synthetic opioid “50 times more potent than heroin, is extremely dangerous to law enforcement and anyone else who may come into contact with it.” The agency warns that skin surface contact with even small amounts of the drug (said to be 50-100 times more potent than morphine) can be fatal.

“Fentanyl can kill you,” DEA Deputy Administrator Jack Riley advised in a sent out to law enforcement officers in 2015. “Fentanyl is being sold as heroin in virtually every corner of our country. It’s produced clandestinely in Mexico, and (also) comes directly from China. It is 40 to 50 times stronger than street-level heroin. A very small amount ingested, or absorbed through your skin, can kill you.”

Simply getting the drug on your skin can instantly kill you, proving demented mindset of this woman who obviously had no concern for the safety of her two young children. Officers immediately donned protective gear, removing a startling five pounds of the deadly drug from the stroller. The woman was arrested on site, where the two children were then turned over to the grandmother. Homeland Security agents say the woman is likely to face charges for attempting to smuggle the deadly drugs into America.

Of course the liberal media will completely ignore this story, as they continue spewing the rhetoric that these poor people just need to be given a chance to make a life here in America.

President Trump: Build that freaking wall… and do it now!