Paul R. Pillar, an academic and 28-year veteran of the CIA, has brought the Israeli regime down again by saying that Israel and Saudi Arabia are the main culprits behind the covert war against Iran. We have been saying the same thing for years.[1] Pillar declares:

“Much of the opposition has to do with a desire to keep Iran in the status of a perpetually isolated and castigated adversary that is blamed for all or almost all of the ills in the Middle East.  That desire characterizes certain other regimes in the Middle East (especially Israel and Saudi Arabia) that are rivals of Iran, want outside powers to take their side, and want international scrutiny diverted from their own contributions to regional instability.”[2]

In this covert war, says Pillars, “misleading and false” information is a fair game for those who want to perpetuate the incoherent idea that Iran wants to create trouble in the Middle East. Many of the same old themes, notwithstanding the agreement’s success in the meantime in being implemented and maintaining its tight restrictions on, and scrutiny of, Iran’s nuclear program, are being repeated.”[3]

These “misleading and false” techniques have been disproved or shown to be wrong long ago, says Pillar, but the warmongers keep repeating them, obviously because they want America and much of the West to get into a bloody conflict with Iran, presumably for Israel and Saudi Arabia. Trump has been a complete pawn in repeating what the warmongers wanted.

For example, Trump declared about three weeks ago that the United States, according to Pillar, “’gave’ Iran between $100 and $150 in assets under the agreement and separately ‘gave’ Iran $1.7 billion in cash.”

Total lie. Pillar writes: “In fact, the United States has not given Iran a penny.  All of the money was Iran’s in the first place. Most of the assets in question had been frozen in foreign financial accounts. The separate cash payment was resolution of a very old claim dating back to the time of the shah, in which Iran paid for some airplanes that the United States did not deliver.  Pallets of cash were used because sanctions continued to shut Iran out of the international banking system.”[4]

Pillar concludes his article by saying: “Donald Trump’s serial lying, and his penchant for repeating lies long after they have been disproven, is in a class by itself regarding dishonesty by a top American leader.”[5]

Pillar even describes Trump like a zombie. Trump has obviously been drinking the Israeli wine, which literally clouds his moral and political judgment as a human being. This is probably why Pillar compares him to a zombie. He cannot think straight at the moment because the Israelis have cast an essentially Talmudic spell on him. This is why Benjamin Netanyahu can say things like Trump’s “support for Israel is clear.”

[1] Trita Parsi has recently written a comprehensive study on this as well. Trita Parsi, Losing an Enemy: Obama, Iran, and the Triumph of Diplomacy (New Haven: Yale University Press, 2017).

[2] Paul R. Pillar, “The Persistence of Falsehoods About the Iran Nuclear Agreement,” National Interest, August 3, 2017.