[ Editor’s Note: We are seeing a war of attrition going on now with ISIS doing all that it can to stave off the inevitable.  Those commanders with good Gulf State and US coalition connections will miraculously be helicoptered to safety, to be redeployed to a new terror destabilization front in the future.

Rank and file Jihadis, especially the foreign ones, will be used up as suicide bombers and rear guard sacrificial troops. This is good news for their home countries as that will mean fewer experienced, angry, hard core jihadis to return home to form new terror cadres.

Finland is amazingly considering offering returning jihadis special benefits to “re-integrate” them into society. This has other Finns waiting in line for housing and living expense stipends more than a bit unhappy. The Finnish government thinks that playing nice to jihadis will chill them out and they will leave their extremism days behind.

Can the Finnish government be this stupid, apparently so. Sweden and some of the other Nordic countries are considering the same, trying to buy the Muslim extremist off by actually building new towns for them. You just can’t make this stuff up.

The next pending battle in Syria will be for the Deir-Ezzor province oil region east of the Euphrates, a rich one. The US coalition has already announced it will use the FSA people it is redeploying from  SE Syria to the Kurdish area to begin an attack southward into that region. That would be a bit more kosher than having the Kurds go in.

The FSA would then have those oil fields to use as a bargaining chip in the political talks.  The questions would be if the SAA contests their move would the US coalition use its air power to protect the FSA grabbing these oil wells, and what would Russian air power do? If the US coalition does this it would be a shameless act, but just one in the long history of shameless acts it has engaged in. Such is the state of our fake democracy … Jim W. Dean ]

This includes research, needed field trips, Heritage TV Legacy archiving, and more – Thanks for helping out

Syrian forces have captured the fortified area near Deir ez-Zor that was struck by Russian cruise missiles, which Moscow says killed over 200 jihadists. Troves of weapons, explosives and damaged armored vehicles were found on the site where the terrorists had holed up.

As the Syrian troops were clearing out the area, they discovered a massive network of underground tunnels used by terrorists to stock weapons, ammunition and as living quarters. Large caches of weapons, as well as considerable food and medicine supplies left by the fleeing terrorists, indicate that they were preparing for a long-term defense of their positions, the Russian Defense Ministry said in a statement Wednesday.

During the raid, the Syrian forces found evidence that the militants holing up in the area hail from Russia and former Soviet republics, the ministry said, adding that the data confirms its own previous intelligence that drew on various sources.

Over 200 militants were killed after Russian Kalibr cruise missiles hit the area on September 5, dealing a heavy blow to the jihadists’ military capability and destroying “12 armored vehicles, including four tanks, six artillery and mortar firing positions, a command post and a communication center, as well as three ammo depots,” the ministry said.

In addition to this, a car repair shop, used by the jihadists to mount anti-aircraft weapons, fit heavy machine guns onto vehicles and plant bombs, was also obliterated.

Footage of the strike’s aftermath released by the Russian Defense Ministry shows the remnants of the heavily fortified terrorist base, which was once ready to withstand all-round firing thanks to its interconnected firing positions.

Traces of terrorists living in the hideout can be clearly seen if you delve inside the intricate web of tunnels. Armaments scattered on the floor, a pile of religious books, ramshackle furniture, an electric bulb hanging from the ceiling – now all abandoned, indicate that jihadists have been living there for a while.

Fleeing the stronghold in apparent disarray, the terrorists abandoned four armed pick-up trucks, a large amount of small arms, munitions, over 100 improvised explosives devices, suicide belts, mines and land mines, the ministry said.

The missile strike launched from the Russian frigate in the Mediterranean Sea was key to the breaking of the three-year siege of the city of Deir ez-Zor. The attack prevented the terrorists from regrouping and mounting a counter-offensive on the Syrian army, which has been making rapid advances in the province of the same name, still mostly under Islamic State (IS, formerly ISIS/ISIL) control.