Minimum Wage: When Seattle embarked on its progressive path to force up the minimum wage in the city, the results were predictable: Those it was intended to help would be hurt the most. Will policy-makers never learn?

It's both sad and tragic, but even policies passed with the best of intentions can hurt those they're intended to help. So it is with Seattle's minimum wage.

Last August, we asked: "What will happen when Seattle raises its minimum to $15 an hour in 2017? It could get ugly."

Unfortunately, we were right. Economists at the University of Washington looked at the recent increases in Seattle's minimum from $9.47 to $11 an hour in 2015 to $13 an hour in 2016.

Their findings are devastating for supporters of a higher minimum wage.

"We conclude that the second wage increase to $13 reduced hours worked in low-wage jobs by around 9%, while hourly wages in such jobs increased by around 3%."

The math is not favorable: The average low-wage employee in the city saw his or her earnings decline by $125 a month last year due to the "generous" minimum wage increase.

That's a $1,500 reduction in pay for those who can afford it least. It's likely to get even worse when they really jack the wage up to $15 an hour, and hundreds if not thousands of people lose their jobs because their employers can no longer afford to pay them.

Even the Washington Post took notice of the Seattle minimum-wage disaster, and what it portends.

"The city is gradually increasing the hourly minimum to $15 over several years," wrote Max Ehrenfreund on the Post's Wonkblog . "Already, though, some employers have not been able to afford the increased minimums. They've cut their payrolls, putting off new hiring, reducing hours or letting their workers go, the study found."

It's a fact that those who earn minimum wages are not equipped to earn more without further training, education or skills acquisition.

As economist Mark J. Perry, a fellow with the American Enterprise Institute and professor at the University of Michigan, noted back in 2015, "minimum wage workers tend to be young, single, part-time workers with less than a high school diploma."

What do you call people of that description after government forces a business to pay them far more than their productivity suggests they're worth? Disposable.

They lose jobs, or have their hours cut. It's devastating.

Nor is the University of Washington study some kind of statistical outlier.

In what has turned into an indictment of the union-backed "Fight for $15" movement, a study by economist David Neumark of the University of California, Irvine tallied the results of over 100 minimum wage studies going back two decades.

His findings were depressing: 85% of the studies said that minimum-wage laws destroyed jobs, led to fewer hours worked, and caused small businesses to close. So saying huge forced hikes in the minimum wage destroy jobs and reduce earnings isn't exactly controversial.

Even the federal government, which itself imposes a national minimum wage on businesses, understands this. A 2014 study by the Congressional Budget Office predicted that raising the minimum wage from $7.25 an hour to $10.10 an hour and indexing it to inflation would kill one million jobs.

Who is hurt worst? Young minority workers, African-Americans and Latinos, mostly. Statistically, they have the least education, training and skills of any group in the workforce.

If you wonder why the youth unemployment rate for minority youth remains stuck in the double digits, look no farther than the minimum wage.

A job provides a ladder of opportunity to gain work and life skills and training that ultimately can lead to better things down the road. But what happens when the ladder is removed?

Responding to growing pressure around he country and the prospect of a national $15 an hour minimum wage, companies such as Wal-Mart, McDonald's, Wendy's and  many others today are busy automating their operations, installing digital cashiers in place of human ones, and looking for other ways to cut soaring labor costs.

It's a logical and inevitable response to soaring wages for unskilled workers.

With thousands and thousands losing their jobs, the progressive Democrats and union activists who are behind the "Fight for $15" movement and many local minimum-wage hiking initiatives have much to answer for.

They talk a great game about helping the poor and uneducated better their lives, but then push destructive policies that ensure those very same people lose their jobs and end up on welfare.

"Fight for $15"? How about a new movement, one based not on destroying jobs and reducing incomes, but on creating jobs and raising workers' earnings. Call it "Fight Against $15."

Minimum Wage Is Racist, Kills Jobs And Doesn't Help The Poor — Apart From That, It's A Great Idea

'Fight For $15': The Most Devastating Minority Job Killer Ever?