On Friday the Veterans Administration posted a  list of hundreds of VA employees fired or punished  for misconduct since the Trump administration took over on January 20th.  A good start. But not enough.

The VA, where vets died waiting for care, is a glaring example of what's wrong with the entire civil service.  It's become a federal employee protection racket.

Workers in every part of the bureaucracy who commit  serious wrongs  like tax evasion, watching porn on the job, or robbing a bank on non-work hours, typically keep their jobs and even get bonuses. Back in 1883, Congress passed the Pendleton Act to replace patronage with civil service, so workers would be hired and paid based on merit. Not now. Federal workers  get hefty salaries and benefits regardless of their work, with no risk of getting fired. One kind of corruption has been replaced with another.

Even worse, these bureaucrats churn out regulations that invade our lives, stifle economic growth, and thumb their noses at the electorate. There's nothing civil about these servants.

President Trump warns that ever-expanding government  is as big a threat to our way of life as terrorism. The "creep of government bureaucracy," he said in Warsaw last week, "drains the vitality and wealth of the people."  Anyone tangled in government red tape while filing  taxes or trying to get permits to build a house or open a business knows this  first hand.  Bureaucracy smothers individual initiative and saps the human spirit.

On January 30,  the new president  ordered all federal departments to eliminate two regulations for every one that gets added.  Since then, he's signed fifteen laws rolling back Obama-era regulations that tried to meddle in people's livelihoods: dictating how investors buy stocks, where ranchers graze cattle, and how teachers are trained.  Just to name a few.

He's also appointed  "task forces" to comb through and eliminate "costly and unnecessary regulations" at each agency.

On Monday, Trump won Senate confirmation for a hard charging anti-bureaucrat, Neomi Rao, to lead the administration's battle against  federal red tape.

Economic revival hinges on winning this battle.  Federal regulations drag down growth by an estimated 0.8% a year, according to the American Enterprise Institute. With growth averaging only a puny 1.5% a year during Obama's tenure,  who can afford such a huge bite out of the economy?

And there's more than dollars and cents at stake.  Deregulation will protect our democracy. Right now, unelected bureaucrats try to call the shots, no matter who is president.  Like Sally Yates, the Justice Department lifer whom Trump fired for refusing to enforce his travel moratorium.  Federal office buildings are filled with Sally Yates wannabes, particularly in the State Department and the Environmental Protection Agency.

Trump's biggest challenge is defanging the bureaucrats in every agency who are determined to thwart his America First, free-market agenda.  A staggering 95% of campaign donations from employees at 14 federal agencies went to Hillary Clinton last fall.  And since Trump's inauguration, it's common for mid-level bureaucrats to talk of refusing to implement  Trump administration policies.  They glorify it as "civil disobedience." But who elected them? It's really insubordination.

Good luck firing these most of these insurbordinates, or any federal employee for that matter. Last month  the president signed a bill making modest improvements in employee accountability in just one department,  the V.A.  That's the most that could be passed while the Democratic Party has the votes in the U.S. Senate to block real civil service reform.  Public sector unions fill the party's coffers and  man the phone banks for Democratic candidates.

Even when faced with dead vets,  Democratic lawmakers blocked real reform of the warped system that keeps bad VA employees on the job. If  Trump  can't reform the civil service, the best alternative is to curb  the power these "servants"  hold over our lives. That's just what Trump's  doing.

Can Trump Win His Battle With The Unionized, Bureaucratic 'Deep State'?