Buffalo Bills running back LeSean McCoy didn’t hold back when asked about the media-generated controversy over teams not signing Colin Kaepernick this week.

“Shady,” as he’s called, let loose and wasn’t afraid to speak the truth about why he thinks the former San Francisco 49ers quarterback can’t get a job – he’s just not good enough.

“It’s a lot more than just he’s not on the team because he doesn’t want to stand for the national anthem,” McCoy said Thursday. “That may have something to do with it, but I think also it has a lot to do with his play. I’m sure a lot of teams wouldn’t want him as their starting quarterback. That chaos that comes along with it, it’s a lot. “As a team, trying to win and not have a distraction on the team, I just take that as a player — there’s certain players that could be on the team with big distractions, and there’s other players that it’s not good enough or not worth it. I think his situation is not good enough to have him on the team with all the attention that comes along with it. I’m sure if a guy like [Tom] Brady or a guy like whoever is your favorite player — Odell Beckham or a guy like that — you’ll deal with that attention and play him.”

He addressed another controversial quarterback he played with, the infamous Michael Vick, who was imprisoned for dogfighting. McCoy said Vick was “10 times better than Kaepernick.” He also said Kaepernick is “not really that good [enough] of a player to deal with.”

To McCoy, it all comes down to team chemistry and off-field distractions: “There’s so many outsiders [that] can mess up a team… Like, if I’m an owner or the GM of a team, do I want to put him on my team? Is he good enough to be on the squad, to even deal with everything that’s going on?”

The answer from around the league is a resounding NO!

Of course, the liberal media and left-wing activists don’t care about any of that. They just want Kaepernick on a team to send a social justice message to the world. They don’t care about the quality of play in the NFL. Ironically, the protests and attention they’re bringing is only scaring teams off more who just don’t want to deal with the media circus headache the QB brings with him.

Like McCoy said, Kaep’s just not good enough to make up for all the hardship. A backup level quarterback is just not worth the microscope a team is put under, with the entire organization being asked questions and being hounded by the media and the fans, distracting them from their focus on winning games.

While Kaepernick protests the police, McCoy is no stranger to law enforcement himself  – last year he had a bar altercation with off-duty cops in Philly. But then, in the middle of last season’s Kaepernick controversy, he invited 15-20 Buffalo police to a Bills home game to show appreciation.

He said at the time, “They’re taking so much heat right now. The things that are happening are definitely wrong, but I just feel just like there’s bad people, there’s bad cops and there’s good cops. So that’s something that me and my foundation will be doing. Also inner city kids, we’re gonna bring them to the game too. You got to show appreciation, because nobody’s perfect. I don’t want cops getting a bad rap for something that bad cops are doing.”

He has a far more nuanced and enlightened view than Kaepernick, who wears socks depicting police as pigs and shirts celebrating murderous communist dictators.

It is no coincidence that Shady is still in the league while Kaep is not.

Do you think Colin Kaepernick is a good enough player to be in the NFL? Tell us in the comments!