If NFL players are going to continue kneeling for the national anthem over perceived police brutality, then they’re going to experience a backlash from the law enforcement community.

Nowhere is that more evident than in Miami, where police officers have been reducing the amount of security at Dolphins football games as a response to the protests.

Most officers working security at football games or concerts do so voluntarily. So why would they volunteer to work on behalf of people who openly view them as racists?

According to CBS Miami, officials were scrambling to find security personnel, having less than half the required number just days ahead of the game.

Guess this isn’t the best way to curry favor with the local police force …

As Sunday rolled around, Miami was looking at 270 officers out of a necessary 400.

Not to worry however, as NFL attendance and ratings have been dropping precipitously ever since the anthem protests were started by Colin Kaepernick.

Here’s a look at the stadium in Miami for the Dolphins most recent game against the New York Jets …

It looks like they would have been just fine had they slashed the security crew even further.

“This whole movement started against police officers,” said Police Benevolent Association President John Rivera. “And now it’s morphed into disrespecting the flag and the country.”

Going forward, the drop in the number of officers working at the stadium would result in “the minimal amount” of security, according to Rivera, “where they feel safe, but I don’t think they’re going to have the ideal amount.”

Even better, Miami-Dade County Mayor Carlos Gimenez explained that the Dolphins themselves will have to pay for security to make up for the lack of volunteers.

“If they have to be ordered, then overtime has to be paid and that’s way it has to be and the Dolphins then will incur that cost,” Gimenez said.

Let’s see how ownership responds to these protests after they get the bill.

Do you think cops should ditch security at NFL stadiums? Share your thoughts below!