President Donald Trump awarded a Purple Heart to an Army sergeant recently wounded in Afghanistan. He is the first of several Trump wants to award during his tenure as commander in chief of the U.S. military. The visit to Walter Reed went well.

“When I heard about this and I wanted to do it myself,” Trump said during a short ceremony at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center. The medal went to Sgt. 1st Class Alvaro Barrientos. He was injured March 17 in Afghanistan during Operation Enduring Freedom. The White House did not release Barrientos’ hometown.

It was President Trump’s first visit as president to the military hospital. The first lady joined him.

Barrientos, whose right leg below the knee had been amputated, joined the President in the hospital’s atrium.

President Trump gave Barrientos’ wife a kiss on the cheek before pinning the medal on the sergeant’s left shirt collar, grasping Barrientos by the shoulders and then shaking his hand. The Purple Heart is awarded to service members who are wounded or killed in action.

Besides Barrientos, Trump is expected to meet privately with around 12 service members who are under care at the medical center.

Before leaving the White House, the president tweeted that he looked forward to “seeing our bravest and greatest Americans.”

Trump’s decision to permit news media coverage of the medal ceremony was in sharp contrast to former President Barack Obama, who awarded Purple Heart medals during his regular visits to Walter Reed but always did so quietly.

Trump was driven to Maryland instead of flying in the Marine One helicopter, due to annual public tours of the White House south grounds and gardens that were going on Saturday.

As the motorcade left the complex, nearby sidewalks were lined with people who had come to Washington on Saturday, which is also Earth Day, to promote science and defend it from various attacks, including budget cuts Trump has proposed. Some held signs that said “Support Science” and “Science Saves Lives.”