But combined with her monthly premiums — which have nearly tripled since 2014, the first year people could buy Affordable Care Act plans — the financial burden is enough that Ms. Goren started taking her Social Security retirement benefits early, which lowers the amount.

“We will use every available resource we have financially until we’ve ground it down to nothing,” Ms. Goren said during an interview in her home in a rural subdivision outside Asheville. “But I’m scared of what’s coming.”

With the distinct possibility that the Affordable Care Act could soon be repealed altogether, she is afraid to touch the $15,000 that her two sons raised this spring through a 5K race to help with her medical expenses.

“We’re sitting on it like Horton with the egg,” Ms. Goren said, referring to the Dr. Seuss book.

When President Barack Obama was still in office, the Republican-controlled House sued to stop the cost-sharing subsidies on grounds that Congress had not appropriated the money. A judge sided with the House last year, but the Obama administration appealed. Mr. Trump, who has talked about using the payments as a bargaining chip to help pass a Republican health bill, has twice asked the court to delay a ruling.

Although the 5.9 million low-income Americans who do benefit from cost-sharing payments will continue to have deductibles and co-payments waived as long as the Affordable Care Act survives, they, too, are facing uncertainty about the future of their health care. If Republicans in Congress succeed at repealing and replacing the law — still a big “if,” but the House has already passed a bill that would do so and the Senate is hurrying to finish its own version — insurance costs for low-income Americans could leap. The House bill provides flat premium subsidies based on age, not income — a formula that penalizes older and poorer people.

Lonnie Carpenter, 55, a self-employed roofer in Winston-Salem, N.C., is in that category. His back was badly injured in a car accident in 2013, and he has not been able to work full time since. Last year, his spinal surgery was paid for by his Affordable Care Act plan from UnitedHealthcare. He owed only about $2,000 thanks to cost-sharing reductions, compared with $11,000 for an operation in 2014, before he got subsidized insurance under the law.

“I’m in a position where I’m maxed out with bills because I’ve missed so much work in the last four years,” Mr. Carpenter said. “But it would have been a whole lot tougher to survive without that insurance. If I hadn’t had that, I’m being honest, I don’t know where I’d be right now.”

Cost-sharing reductions apply to people with annual incomes up to 250 percent of the poverty level; that comes to $29,700 for a single person and $60,750 for a family of four. Deductibles for those with incomes below 150 percent of the poverty level were reduced to $243 on average this year, from $3,703, according to Avalere Health, a consulting firm.

Even as Mr. Trump has remained coy about whether to continue the cost-sharing reductions next year — or even, for that matter, after this month — some powerful Republicans in Congress have begun lobbying for him to do so. They include Representative Kevin Brady of Texas, the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, and Senator Lamar Alexander of Tennessee, chairman of the Senate Health Committee, who urged in a hearing last week that the payments be extended through 2019.

“The payments will help to avoid the real possibility that millions of Americans will literally have zero options for insurance in the individual market in 2018,” Mr. Alexander said, adding that Republicans should “do some things temporarily that we don’t want to do in the long term.”

In North Carolina, Blue Cross and Blue Shield increased rates even more this year and last than it is proposing for 2018, blaming unexpectedly high claims costs among its marketplace customers. But the insurer said last month that it now had “a better handle on expected medical costs,” and thus would seek a far more modest rate increase if the cost-sharing payments were guaranteed.

“You don’t mean to wish your life away, but my prayers are that I wake up and my wife is 65,” said Mr. Goren, a former radio advertising salesman, referring to the age at which people become eligible for Medicare. “We saved, but that money, it goes fast.”