Since late January of 2012, the Washington Examiner’s Paul Bedard has once a week featured a “Mainstream Media Scream” selection in his “Washington Secrets” column. For each pick, usually posted online on Monday, I provide an explanation and recommend a “scream” rating (scale of one to five).

This post contains the “Mainstream Media Screams” starting in January 2017. “Mainstream Media Screams” for July to December 2016; for January to June 2016; for July to December 2015; for January to June 2015. (2012-2014 are featured on MRC.org: For 2014; for June 17, 2013 through the end of 2013. And for January 31, 2012 through June 11, 2013, when the Washington Examiner was both online and a printed daily newspaper distributed around the Washington, DC area.)

Check Bedard’s “Washington Secrets” blog for the latest choice and his other Washington insider posts. Each week, this page will be updated with Bedard’s latest example of the worst bias of the week.

■ New on May 8: Mainstream Scream: Hillary ‘Always the smartest woman in the room’

I’ll add text and video here next week, but so the Washington Examiner gets the traffic for their post when it’s fresh, please read Paul Bedard’s post on their site where you can watch the video and add a comment to share your assessment.

This week's Mainstream Media Scream features longtime presidential advisor, media figure, editor and educator David Gergen declaring President Trump's weekend speech as "deeply disturbing." Trump was in Harrisburg, Pa., at the famed Farm Show Complex, to herald his first 100 days and rap the media, which was holding the annual White House Correspondents' Association Dinner, which the president snubbed. Gergen, on CNN following Trump's speech, said: "To bring your campaign speech into the presidency is something presidents rarely do. This was, this was the most divisive speech I've ever heard from a sitting American president. Others may disagree about that. He played to his base and he treated his other listeners — the rest of the people who have been disturbed about him or oppose him – he treated them basically as I don't care, I don't give a damn what you think because you're frankly like the enemy. You're like the enemy with the press. I thought it was a deeply disturbing speech in that regard." Media Research Center Vice President of Research Brent Baker explains the pick: "You can always count on Gergen to relay the conventional, inside the Beltway, liberal Washington 'conventional wisdom.' The more Trump's critiques of the establishment excite his base the more disdainful the media elite become." Rating: Three out of five screams.

This week's Mainstream Media Scream features regular White House target Jim Acosta, CNN's senior White House correspondent, knocking the criticism by claiming, "We're not the opposition party. We are just trying to get at the truth." During the "Press and the Presidency" forum last Wednesday at the Newseum, he said: And the president, to some extent, has an unhealthy attitude towards the news media and I think I'm being diplomatic when I say this. I was out on the campaign trail time and again when he referred to the news media as the dishonest news media, the disgusting news media. He called us liars and crooks and thieves and I can't think of all of the other names that he called us. There were chants of, you know, going after CNN that he would pause for and allow the crowd to continue those chants and, you know, I did ask him during that news conference where he did take my question, are you concerned that you are undermining American confidence in the news media? Because, at the end of the day, when he leaves office, we need Republicans to believe what's being said in the mainstream news media, just as much as we need Democrats to and I think that the president has to understand that he is doing real damage to what we do. He's doing real damage to the First Amendment in this country when he refers to the news media as the enemies of the people. Now, I know some of that is production, it's the, you know, he's from Fifth Avenue, so there is a little bit of Broadway there, I guess or something like that... I was with Steve Bannon the other day where he referred to us as the opposition party once again. We're not the opposition party. We are just trying to get at the truth and when you have a side of the news media that just insists time and again that, you know, that CNN is out to get the president or out to get certain people in this country, I think it just does a tremendous disservice to all Americans. I don't think it is American to go after a segment of the news media. Media Research Center Vice President of Research Brent Baker explains the pick: "Trump's lack of respect for much of the news media is just giving voice to the way many Americans feel, a view well-earned by journalists like Acosta who condescendingly proclaim an allegiance to 'the truth' but refuse to acknowledge the years of anti-conservative bias at CNN and elsewhere. If Acosta wants to know why Trump's attacks resonate, he should look in the mirror." Rating: Five out of five screams.

This week's Mainstream Media Scream features one of the strangest comparisons between Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and a top Republican the media loves to hate, former Vice President Dick Cheney. It came from Intercept co-founder Jeremy Scahill who was on CNN's Reliable Sources Sunday talking about Assad's use of poison gas and the media coverage of the U.S. military strike. He ripped the media, even CNN talking heads, then ended with this: "Bashar al-Assad was a brutal thug when he was torturing prisoners on behalf of the CIA. Saddam Hussein was America's friend when he was using chemical weapons. We need to have more than just the immediate crisis memory. We need to understand the historical context of how a butcher like Assad actually has more in common with someone like Dick Cheney than he does with the average Syrian or the people that are on these airwaves as brave reporters." Media Research Center Vice President of Research Brent Baker explains the pick: "Talk about 'fake news.' CNN did fine job of spreading it by giving a platform to a far-left journalist to spew hate speech equating an elected U.S. official with a dictator who had, days before, deployed poison gas to kill children. Liberals may like to compare Cheney to Darth Vader, but I don't remember him ever issuing an order to drop poison gas on kids." Rating: Five out of five screams.

■ April 3: Mainstream Scream: Chuck Todd says Trump has the world ‘panicked’

This week's Mainstream Media Scream features one of President Trump's favorite targets, NBC political guru Chuck Todd, and his comments on Andrea Mitchell's MSNBC show that the world "must be panicked" by the president because he is "on the brink" of … something. His comments came Friday on Andrea Mitchell Reports and before Trump tweeted about Todd. "You have a presidency right now that I think is, it's beyond saying it's in crisis mode. It is, you know, it's on the brink. The question is on the brink of what? Is it on the brink of collapse? Is it on the brink of becoming a temporarily lame duck presidency? And maybe it feels like it's lame duck-ish temporarily right now. You've got a stalled agenda... "You've got a president who cannot accept the fact that Russia interfered in this election. And until he accepts that fact, this story is going to consume him. And my fear, Andrea my question to you is this: The world must be panicked that if this president is tested right now, if western alliances are tested by a Putin in the Baltics, by North Korea, is the United States prepared to lead in a crisis right now for the world?" Media Research Center Vice President of Research Brent Baker explains the pick: "As exemplified by Todd, the Washington press corps certainly are quick to assume the worst about the Trump presidency. A bit of wish fulfillment by journalists with little respect for him? How else to explain seeing such a catastrophic state in just the third month of the new administration?" Rating: Three out of five screams.

In the wake of the failure of the House to pass the bill to replace Obamacare, this week's Mainstream Media Scream features Washington Post and Time magazine veteran Carl Bernstein ripping a "lying" administration. Appearing Sunday on CNN's Reliable Sources, he let loose on President Trump's Obamacare repeal loss to host Brian Stelter: "It's more than a blow because in addition to the line that has surrounded his presidency and his incessant lying, which Republicans even have now become terribly alarmed at, it shows the level of his incompetence, which is something that was known to many people who had done business with the Trump Organization. It was known to people who worked on The Apprentice with him when he would show up on the set without having done his homework, having done no preparation, having no idea of where the script was going. "There's nothing new about this. Read the Trump biographies. He is not a competent leader. And on top of that, as you have indicated at the beginning of this program, his presidency is a bodyguard of lies. And that is undermining his presidency at the same time that his closest aides in the campaign are under serious investigation in a possible conspiracy that may extend in some way to himself." Media Research Center Vice President of Research Brent Baker explains the pick: "No matter what happens, the default position for Bernstein is to blame Trump, deride him as incompetent and impugn him as a liar. It seems to be a reflexive response fueled by hatred of the new president, not any independent journalistic assessment." Rating: Four out of five screams.

This week's Mainstream Media Scream features Chris Matthews, on his MSNBC show Hardball, mocking President Trump and his supporters for believing in alternative reality. Trump, he said, is "no better than the weirdo in the basement who calls in the fire alarm just to hear the sirens going past." "Well, tomorrow is Friday. If the president were to rise at dawn and say 'it's Saturday,' what would be the meaning of that statement? Would his people, those who back him no matter what, check their calendars and convince themselves the calendar they'd been using is wrong and the leader they adore is right? "Would they say he didn't mean exactly that it was Saturday but that he was really saying that as President of the United States, he was declaring Friday simply the beginning of a long weekend? Would they say something like that if only to get him and therefore his fight-to-the-end-supporters off the hook? Would they? You tell me. "How would they reconcile the man they look up to saying something their brains told them wasn't true, but still wanting to believe every word he speaks? Again, you tell me... "Here we are, back to the troubling Trump reality. The man in the White House is demonstrably capable of making up claims that have no reality. He's no better than the weirdo in the basement who calls in the fire alarm just to hear the sirens going past." Media Research Center Vice President of Research Brent Baker explains the pick: "It's pretty rich for a 'journalist,' who exclaimed a 'thrill going up my leg' when he heard Barack Obama speak, to ridicule people who are enamored of another president." Rating: Five out of five screams.

This week's Mainstream Media Scream features the latest hit on the Trump administration by MSNBC's popular Morning Joe show, this time from co-host Mika Brzezinski who called top White House advisor Kellyanne Conway "awful," and reaffirmed her ban from the show. It came Monday when Brzezinski said, "I absolutely will not have her live on the show." However, she played two soundbites of Conway in order to condemn her and President Trump. In the first clip, when asked about surveillance of Trump Tower, Conway cited Wikileaks revelations about how the CIA can turn TVs and microwave ovens into listening devices. In a second clip, asked on ABC about the insinuation the CIA techniques were used to monitor people inside Trump Tower, Conway contended she didn't mean any such insinuation. Following the two clips, Brzezinski charged: "That was awful. She's really. It speaks for itself, America. Come on now....It's really awful. It's very, very, very sad what's happening. Everybody has to sort of let the story speak for itself and understand the story as time goes by. I just hope not too much time goes by.... "I'm just letting it hang out there, just like I'll let that hang because there's nothing I want to attach to it. I just want to stay as far away as possible from trying engage with someone who seems to have an audience of one who may not have the country's best interests in mind, we'll put it that way." Media Research Center Vice President of Research Brent Baker explains the pick: "Brzezinski has quite a bugaboo when it comes to Kellyanne Conway and has left any pretense of journalism behind. Brzezinski's clearly now an angry, arrogant and condemnatory judge of Trump's team." Rating: Four out of five screams.

This week's Mainstream Media Scream features a representative of the type of media criticism President Trump faced following his Saturday morning Twitter rant against former President Obama. The reaction of New York Times columnist Thomas L. Friedman, on Meet the Press, was that Trump is a "juvenile." Friedman on the March 5 Meet the Press: "Waking up at 6 AM in the morning, tweeting out one of the most damning accusations one president could make after another, and then, as Danielle [Pletka] said, then talking about Arnold Schwarzenegger, that is non-presidential behavior. That is not adult behavior. That is juvenile behavior. And the fact that we have a president who engages in that is, to me, deeply disturbing. Because think about this. Now he's going to have to go to Europe very soon and interact with other European leaders, other world leaders. What would you think if you're a world leader going into a meeting with – 'What do I say to this guy?' 'What might he say about this meeting?' "He is everywhere we look. And we talked about this before. I quoted my friend, Dov Seidman, who makes the point there's a big difference between formal authority and moral authority. This president has formal authority. But every day you see him eroding his moral authority. And in the end, that is really going to hurt us.... "A few more mornings like this of 6:00 AM tweets, and people are not going to be talking about taking away his twitter, they're going to be talking about taking away his football. And I mean the nuclear codes." Media Research Center Vice President of Research Brent Baker explains the pick: "So, in accusing President Trump of juvenile behavior, Friedman tells a juvenile joke. As for Trump losing his 'moral authority,' when did Friedman, or any of his New York Times colleagues, ever bestow 'moral authority' onto Trump?" Rating: Four out of five screams.

This week's Mainstream Media Scream features former President George W. Bush brushing aside Today show co-host Matt Lauer's suggestion that President Trump has failed to unite the country. Instead Bush said that it's harder to punch through the media to do his job. MATT LAUER: But there's enormous division right now. And although President Trump has said he hopes to unify the country, have you, in the first month, seen him do or say anything that, in your opinion, would be an attempt to heal the wounds of the election? FORMER PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH: Well, first of all, there's only been one month in office. And so it's a – you know, he's got four years. Secondly, I think you have to take the man for his word that he wants to unify the country and we'll see whether he's able to do so. It's hard to unify the country, though, with the news media being so split up. When I was president, you know, you mattered a lot more because there was like three of you and now there's all kinds of information being bombarded out and people can say things anonymously. It's just a different world. Media Research Center Vice President of Research Brent Baker explains the pick: "Of course, Lauer presumes the nation's divisions are President Trump's fault. It's nice that the former president pointed out the obvious role of the news media, but I'm sure Lauer wasn't pleased Bush asserted the media doesn't matter as much now as it used to matter." Rating: Three out of five screams.

■ February 13: Mainstream Media Scream: Smeared ‘Tea Party’ name OK when it’s liberal

With so many in the media running around with the hair on fire over President Trump's first week in office it was hard to pick a top Mainstream Media Scream of the week. So we settled on one that represents the media's view of the administration, from CNN's Christiane Amanpour. It came during Thursday's Anderson Cooper 360 when he read a quote from top Trump adviser Stephen Bannon out of the New York Times: "The media should be embarrassed and humiliated and keep its mouth shut and just listen for a awhile." Amanpour replied: "Steve Bannon is playing the role that he set out for himself. There is obviously some kind of strategy here, although it's hard for me to comprehend it because, you know, I operate in the truth and the fact-based universe. But he's playing a strategy which involves creating straw men and women, creating an enemy out of the press, and then, you know, dividing, diverting, obfuscating while other things are going on. That's the only thing I can imagine. Obviously, there are many other — I want to say — totalitarian regimes in the past which used this same kind of strategy. "And, I mean, if I was going to be funny, I'd say that he's angling for an order of merit from Presidents Sisi, Putin, Erdogan, and all the others. That is how they treat their press. That is what they believe the press should be — a pliant, state propaganda unit in the service of the president. It is not the tradition of the American press." Media Research Center Vice President of Research Brent Baker explains the pick: "First, Amanpour is quite the comedian with her insistence she 'operates in the truth and the fact-based universe.' Second, journalists can sure dish out criticism, but Amanpour shows they can't take it. In her case, quite the hysterical overreaction about Bannon and President Trump acting like a 'totalitarian regime.' That analogy worked better in the years of the previous presidency when CNN was fully in the tank for the Obama administration." Rating: Four out of five screams.

Donald Trump's completion of his long-time bid for the White House has Washington's Mainstream Media in breathless overdrive as they rip the president and his new team and especially his inaugural address. This week's Mainstream Media Scream features one of those hits, from ABC's Terry Moran, who said that the president's "America First" theme reminds him of Nazi sympathizers. On Friday after the inaugural address, ABC anchor George Stephanopoulos said, "Students of history will take note of that slogan, 'America First.'" ABC News correspondent Terry Moran agreed: "It's a loaded term in American history. Now, he defined it here as total allegiance to the United States of America, and it is something, as Cecilia said, this is why he was sent here by people who want to hear that message of America first. However, it carries with it overtones from the 1930s when an anti-Semitic movement saying, 'We don't want to get involved in Europe's war. It's the Jews' fault in Germany.' Charles Lindbergh led them. It is a term, as he defined it his way, but the words themselves carry very ugly echoOKs in our history." Media Research Center Vice President of Research Brent Baker explains the pick: "Trump's impassioned defense of America's superiority sure annoyed journalists. Such historical silliness from Moran, trying to impugn Trump's speech with 'ugly echoes of history,' just proves Trump's belief the news media are out to delegitimize him. As if anyone voted for Trump, a man with a trusted adviser who is Jewish, Jared Kushner, because they yearned for the return of Charles Lindbergh-like antipathy to Jews." Rating: Five out of five screams.

This week's Mainstream Media Scream shows an unusual take on Golden Globe winner Meryl Streep's slap at President-elect Trump. In it, Whoopie Goldberg, on her show The View, makes Hollywood liberals out to be the victims of the right. "Stop using Hollywood as this bad word. Let me remind everybody that in the '70s, and prior to that, Hollywood was really sort of run by the right-leaning groups. That's how we ended up with McCarthyism and all of these so-called lefties being rounded up and eaten, basically, for their beliefs. "Secondly, a lot of actors have always come from real life, so they have a different thing, a different way of looking at stuff. So, stop painting this idea. Because, you know, harking back to the conversation we had, I've been thinking about it, and I remember that I can't name one right-leaning person who has ever lost their job for being a right-leaning person, but I can name you at least 15, 20 people who lost their ability to make a living, including myself, because of right-leaning folks saying, oh, you said that, you shouldn't be saying that. "So my point is, it's not a Hollywood thing. This is people talking about people. Nobody's afraid, as you can see, to say what they want. But Danny Glover ate a lot of poop during the Bush administration, as did Sean Penn." Media Research Center Vice President of Research Brent Baker explains our pick: "Yes, the problem today is that Hollywood is run by conservatives who supposedly suppressed liberals decades ago and still do today. Donald Trump and those disturbed by Meryl Streep's lecture have a lot better grip on reality." Rating: Four out of five screams.